Coming soon.\n\n[tags {receCIfXSlpPPQjCY} {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3}]
Coming soon.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i}]
One of the largest desert regions of Xeryn, the Bronze Desert occupies the northwestern corner of the continent, surrounded by the Northsea, the Forlorn Waste, the Land of Shadows, and the Fadhuldak Mountains, although the latter is considered to be part of the region by some sages. It is mostly inhabited by the native Bandul, though Imperials have had a strong presence there in the last 500 years.\n\n*Description*\nAccording to legend, the Bronze Desert got its name when an early Emperor, Honrarius II., arrived at the newly acquired province and deemed that the copper-colored sands should inform the naming. The legend does not speak of how the sovereign despised the bronze glow or that only a small region of the wasteland displayed that color. These days, the Bronze Desert is nothing but endless dunes and rock formations, slightly darker in hue than the Searing Plains to the south. Due to the work of the desert-priests, countless oases dot the landscape, veritable harbors in this sea of sand.\n\n*History*\nThe Bronze Desert has always been - due to its position close to the only land connection between the continents - a region where armies marched to or from wars. Across the Path of Glory in the north, Imperial legions keep heading north to wage battle against the Holy League of the Green Continent in a never-ending conflict. But even before that, long before the Calamity, this realm was a desert, rendered arid and barren by the cataclysm at the end of the War of the Sorcerers when the Old Continent was sundered and the current landmasses were formed. The Bandul settled in these badlands and made it their home. When the Empire rose to prominence during the Third Age, the Bandul were subjugated but the province was not a bountiful one, so it was mostly left alone. The city of Kabur, Jewel of the North, was built by Imperial and Tarkian nobles and has grown to be a trading paradise, but the natives care little for it.\n\nFollowing the Calamity, the Bandul retook their lands after hiding from the cataclysm in their mountain ranges and have clung to life since herding animals and protecting oases. The reborn Empire came for the Bandul at the end of the Restoration Period and the nomads accepted their fate, knowing that their way of life would spare them the atrocities committed by Imperials elsewhere. This relative agreeableness changed when the constant wars beyond the Bronze Desert had legions and legates crack down harder on locals and their meager properties. Finding oil beneath the sands in abundance also expedited the Imperial oppression. A guerilla resistance formed against such conduct and it managed to survive until the present day. Its leaders - a secretive sect of desert-priests - are hunted relentlessly by Imperial forces and their paid lackeys, to little effect.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regH3bd3LdzEY69c6002}]\n[DLC VoraxDLC TBD]
The Bandul are a race of humans who have inhabited the Bronze Desert for thousands of years. Due to the fact that the region was a desert before the Calamity as well, the resourceful and persistent Bandul have embraced living in arid wastelands prior to any other culture and are naturally adept at existing in hostile places.\n\n*Appearance*\nBandul are dark-skinned and dark-haired, usually hiding their features under thin sheets of cloth except when among themselves or esteemed friends. They are typically small in stature but are quite sturdy, and they have slightly slanted eyes. They are known for dressing in desert colors to hide from prying eyes.\n\n*History*\nThe Bandul are natives of the Bronze Desert as well as the mountains just west of those arid plains. Their race originates from ancient Alghazar, which is now found on the Green Continent. The Bandul were subjugated by Imperials early on in the Third Age, yet they were never thoroughly exploited, having had no cities to speak of, neither industry nor agriculture save the herds of animals they bred in their nomadic wanderings. The desert-dwelling folk were also considered sub-par slaves by Imperials and so few of them were bound against their will. Most Bandul survived the searing winds that struck their homeland during the Calamity by fleeing up to the western mountains, which were largely spared.\n\nFollowing the Calamity, which turned the already arid Bronze Desert into an even less hospitable place, the Bandul emerged from the mountains and slowly adapted to the new desert, keeping to the oases and learning how to fight - or to avoid - the new inhabitants of the Realms. The New Empire appeared and again turned the region into a province, especially because of the oil that could be found in excess under the shifting sands. The Bandul are in general quite used to their Imperial overlords. The recent wars against the Holy League of the Green Continent, however, have made Imperials in the north especially cruel and needy - the legions keep press-ganging Bandul to use them as trackers and guides across the desert and the soldiers these days also confiscate much more than the nomads can tolerate. This gave rise to a secretive resistance movement against Imperial rule. The leaders of this are said to be an order of ancient desert priests who are sought by authorities for terrorism and insurrection - but are rarely found.\n\n*Culture*\nAs oasis dwellers and nomads living off herding animals, Bandul enjoy quite a harmonious relationship with the arid wastelands that are their home. They live in tight-knit communities called /sachrets/, where usually the wisest man and woman make decisions, but a lot of their lives are governed by ancient traditions. The Bandul also place great emphasis on merit - their most successful hunters and trackers usually hold important positions in a given /sachret/. The spiritual leaders are the secretive desert-priests who can command the elements of their realm through a form of nature-magic. Their single city, Kabur, is in the southwestern corner of their lands and was built during the Third Age with Imperial and Tarkian help. According to most Bandul, those that live in the city cannot truly be considered their kin.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW}]\n[DLC VoraxDLC TBD]
One of the largest desert regions in the whole Empire, the Jagged Waste is named after the spiky, sharp rock formations and outcroppings that cover most of its arid surface. Intersected by the Emperor's Road, the Waste sees quite a lot of travel. It is home to many odd beasts but it is feared the most for the terrifying rock storms that can eat the flesh off people in a matter of seconds.\n\n*Description*\nSub-regions might differ vastly, but in general, the Waste is a rocky desert dotted with various formations of solid rock. Saw-like ridges and deep ravines are very common, as are solitary, spike-like stones. The soil and the stone have a distinct, washed-out yellow or bone color. Skies are mostly clear but often have an orange tint due to the sun’s cruel power and the constant dust in the air. Winds frequently become brutal without warning, carrying pebbles with speeds that turn them into tiny projectiles. The strongest rock storms are quite rare but they live vividly in the imagination of travelers due to their nasty reputation.\n\n*History*\nThe Jagged Waste was formed during the Calamity, and it has been constantly carved by the ceaseless, powerful winds ever since. The Empire reclaimed the territory toward the end of the Restoration Period but it was fairly disregarded until later when the demand for obsidian rose to previously unseen heights. Additionally, it was soon discovered that the region has quite a lot of untapped resources, like crystals, marble, and salt. These turned the Jagged Waste into one of the most valuable Imperial holdings north of the Sepis Mountains. The Waste saw a lot of battles during the Dragon War and the Orc War - the two greatest conflicts on the continent since the Calamity - but it remained under Imperial control for the most part, with the notable exception of the area directly bordering the Dragonlands, which the Empire lost to the Dragonlords.\n\nSince the discovery of valuable resources and the Waste's strategic importance, many settlements and outposts have sprung up along and near the Emperor's Road and around said assets, including the cities of Deven and Tor'Zag's Shelter, some of the Empire's largest cities by the present day. However, the western segment of the Waste was never colonized in earnest by Imperials for various reasons and it remains a land of relative lawlessness and dubious opportunities.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}][region {reg2ccR3LeQM869c602Q}]
Even though many of the continent's diverse cultures maintain a calendar of their own, every realm also keeps the Imperial calendar to some extent, especially in the field of commerce and diplomacy. The current calendar was created at the end of the Triumvirate War around 150 post-Calamitat, based on the Reformed Calendar of the Twin Emperors Caldarius and Cendanius from the 22nd century ante-Calamitat, with some notable differences that have to do with the changed perception of the Elder Gods and their spheres. It also uses a new starting point: the Calamity, also called the 'New Founding', and differentiates between pre-Calamity and post-Calamity times (called 'ante-Calamitat' and 'post-Calamitat', abbreviated as A.C. and P.C.).\n\nThe year is made up of twelve months, each 30 days long, and thus a year is exactly 360 days long. The months are as follows:\n\n1 - /Sergoros/: Originally it was named after the Elder God of War, Arcus, who was also the defeater of frost and liberator of Solas, the Sun God. It was also the first month after winter when traditionally war could be conducted. Now it is named to honor the new War God, Sergorod, and refers more to how this month usually marks new Imperial military campaigns.\n\n2 - /Leto/: The name means 'slaying' or 'smiting', referring to the end of winter. The old name was 'Radis', referring to the War God's victory over the cold and the return of warmth and the radiance it brought.\n\n3 - /Caldarius/: Named after one of the Twin Emperors of circa 2200 A.C., who brought about a golden age, and rehashed the calendar to be simplified. Previously called Tribus.\n\n4 - /Cendanius/: Named after one of the Twin Emperors of circa 2200 A.C., who brought about a golden age, and rehashed the calendar to be simplified. Previously called Quatis.\n\n5 - /Obscuris/: Meaning 'to hide' or 'to make disappear'. It is a reference to Bal Ur Kaal, God of Lies. Used to be called Auctifius, meaning 'fruit bearing', 'fertile', and 'joyful', which originates from pre-Daromarean times but was changed to avoid the mention of fertility and weather.\n\n6 - /Nerudis/: Named after Emperor Nerud, who ruled just before Valacrius around 1350 A.C., and was considered the greatest champion of the Senate primarily for giving almost complete power to the Senate. The month's old name was Sextis, meaning 'sixth' since it used to be the sixth month in the oldest calendar.\n\n7 - /Xevarum/: Named after the House of Xevaris, which is the noble house of both the first Emperor, and the Immortal Emperor. The month was previously called Xunais after Xuna, the Prime Goddess and the wife of Xyn, as this was the most bountiful month blessed by her, but was changed after the Calamity to avoid any mention of the Elder Gods.\n\n8 - /Vyndemis/: Means 'wine' or 'grape gathering'. This was the primary month of vintners, and its name originates from pre-Daromarean times. The Twelve wanted to change it, but the Senate managed to protect the name and since wine production was revived in the Province, the Liches let it go.\n\n9 - /Aestamort/: Means 'death of warmth' or 'death of year'. Used to be the last month of the year in pre-reform times.\n\n10 - /Vigilus/: The name means 'wake' or 'vigilance', referring to the silent time of the year and nature sleeping, but Man staying awake in the darkness. Its days were part of the long, single winter month, which was separated into three months by the Twin Emperors.\n\n11 - /Velum/: Means 'veil'. Originates from the time before the Aetruan unification with the survivors of Daromar, it was called Velamgelus, the 'veil of frost'. It used to be the sole winter month with about 90 days. Later, its excess days were given over to two new added months.\n\n12 - /Facta/: Means 'procedure', a time when the new Senators are elected, the previous year is evaluated, and preparations are made for the new year. It was originally called Xalefacta, meaning 'thawing', and its days were part of the long, single winter month. Facta was added by the Twin Emperors, the name shortened creatively by the Twelve to avoid callbacks to actual seasons.\n\nEvery month has 5 weeks, each with six days. The days are as follows:\n\n1 - dia Solas: the Day of the Sun, referring to Solas, the old God of Sunlight. One of the only old names kept after the Twelve's campaign of censorship.\n\n2 - dia Nya: Refers to Nya, the Great Moon, the largest of the three.\n\n3 - dia Imperis: the Day of the Prime God Xyn in old times, changed after the rise of the Twelve to refer to the Immortal Emperor.\n\n4 - dia Mortis: the Day of the Prime Goddess Xuna in old times, changed after the rise of the Twelve to refer to death and Ahskul.\n\n5 - dia Albea: Refers to Albea, the Pale Moon, the second largest of the three.\n\n6 - dia Urkaal: Named after Bal Ur Kaal, referring to the God's aspect of entertainment. This is the designated day for markets in smaller communities, as well as a day of resting and recreation in cities.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {recLF3Dyip1e2Q7RU}]
Historians have recorded that Talien was a freelancer warrior who ended up joining the war of P.C. 874 against the Empire after some agents Imperial murdered his bride-to-be. The bleak hills that now bear his name mark the location of his victory against two legions at the head of an army made up largely of escaped slaves and mercenaries. Unfortunately, Talien was killed by the retreating Lich who led the Imperial forces. Ever since then, the citizens of Dragmolac revere him as a hero, especially the descendants of the slaves who liberated themselves and settled as free folk in the realm of the Black Dragon after the war. The hills today are a no-man’s-land, a border zone of the Black Dragonlord, constantly patrolled by his soldiers but kept uninhabited and mostly barren to be easily defendable. Grassy dunes of dark silt are dotted by small groves as far as the eye can see.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {rego5wX3LgERB69c600E}]
An old, great fortress that predates the Calamity, Refugis was raised back in the Great Expansion Era of the 5th century P.C. after the Calamity toppled it. Its new charge was to overlook the west, though its reconstructed version was much smaller than the original stronghold. Subsequent mining operations were to start but the region was pretty devoid of ore except for the contested Taludhar Valley to the southwest. In the wars of the 6th century - between Dragmolac and the Empire - Tectum Carvos was used as a staging ground for attacks by several legions, enforced by the Fort Refugis garrison that attacked the Taludhar Valley at the same time. In retaliation after beating the Imperial forces, the Black Dragonriders descended upon the fortress in a display of deadly Dragonfire and Dragon magic, bringing down most of its walls and towers. They say that the walls look like they melted in the terrible attack that toppled them. Today the place is a ruin, abandoned except for the odd outlaw and hermit, though there are rumors that all sorts of refugees, outcasts, and wanderers congregate there.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i} {receCIfXSlpPPQjCY}]\n[node {nodNFmk3LdWDB69c603q}]
Tahrar Barak (the 'Grim Plains' in Dwarvish) is a highlands region mostly cut off from the rest of the surrounding flatlands by the lava rivers of the Molten Tongue. Its east side rises up to the foothills of the Mountains of Fire where the Molten Kingdom of Dvendar Tharr lies largely undisturbed since the Calamity. The plains themselves are flat but rough, made of slag and covered by dark ash. Clefts and ravines run dozens of miles in all directions, creating a hard-to-navigate terrain that most travelers shun. At the northernmost point of Tahrar Barak lies the ruined city of Quathos, once the pride of the Inventor Kings but few can tell the tale of ever reaching its fused stone walls.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {reg9EGi3LxFuj0350002}]
The desert-dwelling Sadirar believe that this mountain peak is the holiest of places in the Riven Realms. According to their religious tradition, it was at the top of this mountain that their ancestors were first contacted by the Great Spirits and learned that the Calamity is about to destroy the continent. Heeding their warning, the people fled into the caverns where Earth Spirit guided them and lived there for generations, sustained by the Great Spirits only to emerge once these entities called to them again centuries later. The tribes again climbed the Mountain of Kor only to receive their divine mandate: the Searing Plains were from now and forever their realm - one they needed to cherish and protect. The name of the holy mountain is derived from the first shaman, Kor, who heard the call of the Great Spirits before the Calamity and convinced the people to follow him.\n\nThe mountain is beloved by all four Great Spirits: fire lives in its heart, the earth is its crust, air surrounds it, and water gushes from its bowels. The peak is painted with the holy colors on the long ascent that leads up to its peak, something that the shamans do when going on dream quests or when they hear the call of the spirits. Apart from this, nothing grows or lives on the mountain save for birds of prey.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i} {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj} {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW}]
True to its name, the Writhing Oasis is a living, tangled mass of flora and odd, mutated fauna that is both repulsing to see and lethal to interact with. Whatever sickness came to the oasis was of magical nature, and it only started several decades ago. Before that, the oasis was fairly regular, if too hot due to the close proximity of Lake Gehennis. Then in a fitful and sudden streak of magical infection, the oasis mutated into what it is today - a grown-together, twisted glade comprised of moving trees, strange poisonous bushes, odd plants, weird fleshy growths, tendrils, stalks with eyes and mouths that grow everywhere, as well as swampy terrain, all festering in the noxious air. A faintly putrid smell lingers while viscous fluids ooze and gather in pools. The pond of the oasis is stagnant, ripe with the larvae of ugly insects of an unknown sort. Parasitic life forms thrive here and are frequently twisted into new forms by the unseen arcane anomalies. Fleshy, brown, purple, and reddish colors dominate this tumor of a place, unnatural and sickly to the eye. Every sane person keeps away from the Writhing Oasis but the occasional visitors tell tales of an expansion that might threaten the neighboring lands.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i} {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx}]
Lake Gehennis is the largest and most unpredictable of the lakes of lava that came to be at the southern-most point of the constantly flowing Molten Tongue. Gehennis (meaning ‘bowl of flame’ in Daromarian) changes continuously, with parts of it - especially the sides - cooling down, then cracking up and overflowing with fresh magma a few days later. Often, the hot slag eats itself under the flatlands and hills surrounding the lake, and suddenly Lake Gehennis consumes a large area, adding to its already formidable size. Some say that fire demons and flame serpents reside in the hottest, middle section but this has not been confirmed yet. Poisonous fumes make the sides of the lake uninhabitable, but many try their luck at finding rare ores, iron veins, or leftover Dwarven treasures in the hot hell of the shores.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i} {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx}]
The clearest of the lakes of lave connected to the Molten Tongue, Flametear Lake is fairly round in shape, with an ever-scorching, glowing, incredibly hot surface. The lake is so much hotter than the other bodies of lava that nobody can get closer than a mile without passing out due to heat and suffocating. It is at the southeastern tip of the lava rivers.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i} {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx}]
Arkon is the God of Light in a pantheon of foreign gods, although nothing is known of his peers, as the Oghres who worship him never mention the rest of the deities. The pale giants believe that their god showed them the way to the Outer Realms and aided them in every way since they left their world of origin. Arkon is a god that protects the weak, rewards the valiant, defends life, and opposes the works of evil, especially the Demons of the Abyss and their army, the Damned. The deity is served by priests and warrior priests alike, but all followers must be able to defend themselves in combat. Oghres believe that their God's light shines on the true path and guides the worthy and the courageous, so Arkon is much more than a war god or even a god of protection. His holy symbol is a torch with a many-pronged star on top instead of flames, often displayed inside the image of a shield.\n\nCuriously, Arkon's worship has not yet been introduced to the continent of Xeryn. This is mostly in part because of the scarcity and nature of Oghres who manage to make it to the Riven Realms. If it would, a strong opposition against its spreading could be expected from the Triumvirate who are a cadre of dark gods diametrically opposed to the God of Light's sphere.\n\n[tags {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY}]
Oghres are a race of giants with skin that looks like alabaster and eyes that gleam with a blue glow. Their mighty empire has all but fallen, and their scattered kin have been seeking a new home for centuries. The ones that have reached Xeryn often turn into twisted, terrifying beasts when touched by the Taint.\n\n*Appearance*\nOghres are huge humanoids with pale, almost white skin and shining blue eyes. Adult males stand over 9 feet tall while most females are just a little shorter than that. Their physique is bulky and muscular and the little hair they have is usually black or blueish. Their sturdiness and strength surpass that of most other know races but their presence of mind is also exceptional.\n\nTainted specimens lose their grip on reality, fall into a mad rage, and attack every living being on sight. They become twisted, their bodies wracked by fleshy growths and bony protrusions like horns and barbs - sometimes even tentacle-like appendages. They grow bulkier but often lose the freedom of movement of an unmutated Oghre.\n\n*History*\nWhat little is known about Oghres is that they arrived at the Outer Realms thousands of years ago and joined other races who were fighting the Damned, the army of the Demon Princes. Following their initial victories, they settled a ruined city and named it Karad'Ruhn along with the lands surrounding it. After a while, the dark enemy returned and laid siege to the city but by then the Oghres were now all but alone in their struggle and kept losing ground rapidly. Karad'Ruhn is said to have not fallen yet but its inhabitants have been cut off from the outside world for centuries now. Any other Oghres that remain are either survivors of the wars who got isolated from their kin or ones who left behind the struggle to find a new calling. A number of them have come to the continent of Xeryn but many fall prey to the Taint for some unknown reason and become ravening monsters that are either put down or become war beasts for the Empire's legions.\n\n*Culture*\nOghre culture had no contact with other races before their arrival to Karad'Ruhn and even then, it took a long time for them to show up on Xeryn. The people of that city consider themselves warriors of the Light who oppose the Darkness but the individuals who come to the continent are usually less devoted to this cause. Oghre warriors are said to be without equal while their mages have unlocked the secrets of Crystalmancy to an extent unknown to other races. Their priests and warrior priests wield the power of Arkon, the God of Light, and are key to Karad'Ruhn's persistence and the survival of their race. Tainted Oghres have no culture of their own as they are monstrous beasts, little more intelligent than clever animals.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x} {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW}]
The Senate of the Empire is a governing assembly made up primarily of aristocrats and some select leaders of the Triumvirate, as well as some sanctioned magic users, all holding the position of 'Senator'. Its original function was to be an advisory council to the king of Aetruas but upon the arrival and assimilation of the Daromarian exiles and the /Imperium Conceptus/, this role became better defined. From then on, the Senate functioned as a legislative assembly (ultimately ruled over by the Emperor) and also wielded executive power as well as the right to appoint certain officials and magistrates.\n\nThe assembly maintained these powers all throughout the Third Age but its effectiveness began to weaken when the Immortal Emperor Valen Xevaris came into power. By the time of the Calamity, the Senate was little more than the puppet advisory council of the Apostles, the de facto rulers of the Empire. The Fourth Age saw the rise of the assembly again but the true power lies with the Twelve who use the Senate as a pool for legislative ideas and a tool to delegate tasks beyond their interest onto; or as a way to keep an eye and maintain a stranglehold on the more rebellious noble families - if you are willing to listen to the more cynical schools of thought. It has certainly become an arena for firebrand aristocrats and priests who believe that they can have an impact on the Imperial public and political life by giving speeches or arguing points. Most of them are only interested in lobbying, honing their oratory skills, or earning dubious fame.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
The Crimson Order is an organization that is both a college for sorcerers and the ruling council of distant Karkpolis at the edge of the Crimson Desert. Its founders were mages who survived the Calamity using their arcane powers and their subsequent inquiry into the then readily accessible Outer Realms led them down a path that forever changed them. Upon their emergence during the early Fourth Age, they were elevated into a position of power in the awakened Empire by the Twelve, the Lich lords who now ruled with an iron fist.\n\n*History*\nThe precursors of the Crimson Order were the Imperial Colleges of Sorcery in the Province. When the Omens started appearing before the Calamity, some of the Grandmasters took it upon themselves to gather students, other mages, relics, and as much mundane wealth as they could, then hastily traveled southwest, to remote Karkpolis at the edge of the Cobalt Desert. No account of why they did this survives except in the possession of the Crimson Order who are not famous for sharing knowledge of such matters. By the time the cataclysm struck, they had settled into towers cast of iron that had been built near the town using sorcery, supposedly on the Emperor's orders. The mages used their combined arcane power to shield these structures and survive the Calamity while the surrounding region became one of the most accursed and magically altered regions, forming the Crimson Desert - where the newly baptized order of sorcerers got their name from.\n\nEarly Fourth Age historians claim that the Twelve were swift to contact the wayward mages inside their sorcerous barrier and made sure to elevate them to an important position in the awakened Empire. They can hold positions in the Senate regardless of birth, own lands rivaling nobility, and have a say in political matters similar to important clergymen. Some theorize that since the Crimson Order has since become masters of contacting and summoning entities from the Outer Realms, they were the ones who brought Bal Ur Kaal and indeed other Demonic entities into the fold of the Empire, thus aiding the Twelve in their own sorcerous endeavors.\n\nApart from political and magical advisors in the Senate, the Crimson Order has remained a secluded, isolationist power during the Fourth Age, focusing on teaching new generations of mages and on researching the arcane phenomena of the universe. They played a pivotal role - along with the Nosferatis Sisterhood - in the summoning of the Orcs into this world when the Twelve tasked them with delivering a new, undefeatable army. The details of that ritual are obscured even today, and nothing like it has ever again been performed.\n\n*Structure and Activity*\nOutsiders are not allowed to learn much of the Order's inner workings but curious investigators and sages have been able to put together the basics of how the cadre operates. Magically inclined students are called apprentices and they study under a variety of teachers - all senior members of the order - while a single Master is responsible for them, a sort of a patron who facilitates their apprenticeship. Once they pass the trials that are said to be very dangerous, they become full-fledged members of the Crimson Order. Many of them travel to distant places and set up their own practice but some stay and work for the school, eventually becoming Masters. Only they can take on apprentices. The most experienced or mighty of these Masters are elected Grandmasters - the ones responsible for the decisions that govern the Order. Sorcerers of that caliber are among the most powerful people of the Empire, following only the command of the Twelve.\n\nCrimson Sorcerers often serve in different positions all over the Empire - some are military advisors, others become magistrates while still others are attached to arcane research programs. Yet the majority leave after graduating to make their own fortunes with the knowledge and sorcery they had mastered.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {recdbVxBTES840oDS}]
The Smolderbone Flats is a large wasteland of dark orange slag and rock between the Molten Tongue, Arenas Negras, and the Searing Plains, characterized by vast, open areas of broken ground and low ravines interspersed with jagged stone formations. The region formed when the Calamity caused the volcanoes of the West to erupt in a conflagration of fire and lava that spewed forth and crawled east, burning and burying everything in its path. Although it halted where today the River of Fire gives way the Smolderbone Flats, it has not ceased to flow and so the area is constantly covered in ash and smoke. The result is an inhospitable wasteland where few things live and almost nothing grows - almost nothing; to everyone's surprise, it was found that many underground caves have moisture and so certain mushroom crops can be grown beneath the broken terrain. The sky is typically dark and the sun is hidden by smoke and ash coming from the nearby mountains and lava lakes. The only sizable Imperial settlement is the city of Avernum, an industrial town that managed to make use of the Flats' unique properties.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regoKSG3KmLvB0350006}]
The huge creatures called Sand Wyrms are a race of invasive annelids that live exclusively in parts of the western deserts where the sand permits their burrowing lifestyle. They are aggressive, dim-witted, and merciless, having caused great strife in earlier centuries when the Empire unwittingly entered their territories.\n\n*Appearance*\nAdult Sand Wyrms are anywhere between 15 to 45 feet long, their long bodies covered in flexible but strong chitin that is as strong as mail armor. Their color can change over time to match the hue of the sand they currently dwell in. At the front end of their elongated body is the creature's head that only has a large mouth lined with dagger-like teeth and four tentacles it uses to grab prey and sense movement. The digestive acid of the Wyrms can be regurgitated to burn or incapacitate targets at a distance.\n\n*Behavior*\nSand Wyrms move extremely fast under the sand but have a hard time burrowing in harder soil, so fortunately for the rest of the continent, they have been confined to parts of the Searing Plains. There is evidence suggesting that these creatures have existed since the Third Age, during which they attacked the city of Vratluk and massacred all its inhabitants. Where they came from and where they disappeared to afterward has remained a mystery, and the next time they emerged was well after the Calamity. This time, whole armies fought against their seemingly endless numbers. Although Sand Wyrms propagate and breed very fast at times, sages are not certain what initiates this boom, and the creatures do not seem to reproduce at such a rate normally. The worms spend most of the day burrowed in the sand, guarding their territory. Groups of the largest specimen go in search of food regularly and in the case of larger lairs, these hunting parties can contain dozens of the beasts. Victims are dragged under the sand where they suffocate or are crushed by the might of the Wyrm, but their bite is equally deadly, especially if the creature can lunge at the target. When threatened or wounded, most Sand Wyrms burrow into the sand to recuperate.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x}]
Today no more than an abandoned, ruined settlement in an otherwise empty valley of mines, the colony was a promising venture that turned out to be a catastrophic investment, which led to it being forsaken in the end.\n\nEstablished over 50 years ago by the minor Trading House called House Cadavius, the colony was build in a valley of a small, nameless mountain range where prospectors found what were regarded as rich copper veins. The nearby crystal forest also drew the attention of the settlers who sought to expand their operation to harvest the bounties of that /calerus/ as well. Unfortunately for them, the nearby rogue hive of Yrgs suddenly felt threatened by the growing colony’s presence and started attacking the Cavadius settlement. After several years of fighting, however, the insects mysteriously disappeared overnight, leaving behind the Forlorn Hive. Meanwhile, the crystal of the small /calerus/ turned out to be largely useless in crafting and the copper veins were revealed to be scarce, becoming depleted soon. By then, House Cavadius had invested so much in the colony and in the fight to protect it that they went broke and had to dissolve most of their holdings. The colony itself has been abandoned for over 40 years now and whatever little value it had simply evaporated.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i}]\n[node {nodcG4Z3LetTu69c600E}]
One of the many magical abominations created by the dark sorcerers of long-forgotten Zenrak, Eradicators were bred to be beasts of war capable of killing mages as well as small armies if unleashed.\n\n*Appearance*\nThese creatures are so alien to behold that it is quite difficult to comprehend what one is looking at upon encountering them. Eradicators have spherical bodies held 9 to 12 feet high by six spindly, gnarly, insectoid legs, which allow them to move in every direction with astonishing speed and even climb sheer surfaces. These appendages are also used as spears by the creature, strong as steel, and deadly accurate. Their rubbery hide is reinforced by magical energies, producing an outer barrier that is nigh-impossible to penetrate. A single, long stalk protrudes from the top of the bulbous body ending in a cluster of eyes that can swiftly scan all around the creature on several spectrums of light, including heat- and low light vision. From the Eradicator's underbelly hang several dozen thin, black tentacles, each between 3 and 6 feet. These cause agonizing pain and paralysis through a potent toxin to anyone they touch. If wounded, the creatures' acidic blood can spray on opponents to burn and blind them.\n\n*Behavior*\nEradicators are believed to be practically immortal in the sense that they can go into hibernation for thousands of years, evidenced by present-day encounters with them in vaults below ancients Zenraki cities long believed lost to the jungle. The creatures are also capable of regenerating all but the deadliest wounds, so the common conception among sages is that they can not be killed. Their sturdiness extends to magical resistance that is very difficult to penetrate. Survivors of making contact with the creature describe devastating mental blast attacks that stun and debilitate victims - in some cases literally burn the mind or cause permanent brain damage.\n\nSince the only way to encounter Eradicators is to find one sealed away in rare Zenraki ruins found in Dajmaha, and the slain creatures dissolve into an acidic paste in a matter of minutes, very little is known about their behavior and life cycle. Only one thing is for certain: they attack any living being on sight and will not relent until they have eradicated it.\n\n[tags {recdbVxBTES840oDS} {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x}]
Lost Vratluk is a ruined city at the southern end of the Searing Plains called Arenas Vorax, half-sunk beneath the dunes of that unforgiving desert, which is said to consume everything wandering onto its sun-scorched sands. Despite that, the ruins have been clinging to the surface for four thousand years now, a testament to the ingenuity of its architecture. The people of Vratluk did not prove as durable as their capital with its many ziggurats - they perished long before the Calamity, at the dawn of the Third Age when a young Empire was busy expanding and the Elder Races were still cautious contacting the continent's humans.\n\nAlthough early Imperial explorers encountered the original inhabitants of the city-state of Vratluk, by the time envoys arrived at the magnificent city, the people were gone, every last one of them. The expedition found that Vratluk, along with the surrounding villages and towns among the fertile hills were attacked from below: some kind of burrower creatures invaded en-masse and massacred everyone. No sign of the attackers remained. Vratluk was not repopulated but remained a haunted, ruined place avoided by all but the most curious. The mystery of the attackers was solved after the Calamity - which strangely avoided the ruins - when the Sand Wyrms appeared and spread all over the desert, menacing settlers and travelers until a joint effort defeated them.\n\nThe desert around current-day Vratluk is the worst part of Arenas Vorax, where quicksands are so common that most folks avoid this region altogether.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i}]\n[node {nodMUso3LdXC569c600E}]
'Demon' is a collective term used to refer to a wide variety of creatures that were corrupted into powerful but evil new forms at the onset of the Second Age and has been waging war against all the Elder Gods' creations ever since.\n\nAccording to ancient lore, the First Ones were created by the Elder Gods to be the caretakers of Creation. One of the first such beings, called Omkeo, went insane and turned against his creators, claiming that the universe was flawed and had to be destroyed completely before a new beginning. There were others who followed him into this destructive agenda, and once their reign of terror over the realms was broken, the Elder Gods chained them at the bottom of the Abyss. There they raged and despaired, and Omkeo's corrupted blood turned them into the first Demons. Unfortunately for the realms, their evil did not end there - their followers and lesser servants released several Demon Princes who have hidden from the Gods and began building a terrifying army of converted creatures called 'the Damned' to eventually liberate their dreaded lord.\n\nWith the obscuring of the Elder Gods during the Third Age and their subsequent disappearance after the Calamity, the Demonic army no longer had anything to fear as individual realms were not powerful enough to stop them - and so their terrifying campaign across the Outer Realms began in earnest. By present-day, countless worlds and empires have fallen to their relentless march. Not many are aware of where the Damned lurk these days but there is fear that their presence will surely be revealed for all to tremble.\n\nDemons themselves come in many forms. The blood and essence of Omkeo and the Demon Princes causes living beings to become fell, corrupted, mutated creatures resembling their origins and so the Damned used this to assimilate whole species into their twisted ranks. Demons do not age and are notoriously difficult to kill, as their bodies are enhanced by the powerful magic inherent in their befouled essence. Demonic blood can also cause mutations after generations of interbreeding with non-Demons, which is the reason for the existence of Demonkin all over Xeryn.\n\n[tags {recdbVxBTES840oDS} {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY}]
This village is home to the Kotrar tribe of the Sadirar people who call the Searing Plains their home. It stands in a remote desert location out northwest, surrounded by endless dunes.\n\n*Description*\nEach of the four great Sadirar tribes is connected to an elemental Great Spirit, the Kotrar being worshipers and wielders of winds and thus, their culture, magic, and beliefs revolve around the element of air. They are the most nomadic and unpredictable of the Sadirar, struck by wanderlust, and Kotrar is their only permanent settlement. Sandstone buildings marked with white and light blue paint make up the village where large, open spaces, as well as huge banners, flags, and windmills, catch the eyes of visitors. Kotrar often looks abandoned because the tribes regularly leave to wander, following the call of Air Spirit, and only the oldest remain to take care of the village until the others return.\n\n*History*\nOriginally exclusively nomadic, the Kotrar tribe was ordered by the Sadirar over-tribe to build a settlement where they can be contacted and where the holiest rituals of Air Spirit can be performed regularly. The location was chosen for its open skies and constant desert winds. Despite complying with the wishes of their superiors, the Kotrar are notoriously difficult to reach at most times, as their shamans prefer going where the winds take them. This behavior is also the reason for their relative well-informedness, at least compared to many other Sadirar: they visit many places, albeit briefly, and hear a lot of things. The Kotrar have also given little thought to the peace between their people and the Imperials, although they have never been openly against it either.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl}]\n[node  {nodctN23LetQM69c6006}]
Xyn was the Elder God of the Sky, the Sun, Rulership, Storms, and the Day, who was the King of the Pantheon and the prime God who reigned over all other Gods. From the most ancient times, Xyn was the chieftain of the clan of gods called the Xyneans who forged all the Elder Gods into a single force that stabilized the old chaos, then created the worlds and realms as we know it. He took his throne on Mount Xyn overlooking the Outer Realms and married Xuna, Goddess of Earth and Fertility. Their children went on to govern all creation until his bastard son Orcos turned the clans against each other, which led to the War of the Gods, eventually causing the obscuring of the Elder Gods and the rise of mortal races. Xyn and his fellow deities remained fervently worshipped by Imperials until the end of the Third Age when he descended upon the Empire during the Calamity, after which he left this reality along with the rest of the Elder Gods. Imperial tradition states that it was Xyn's wrath that initiated the great cataclysm and prompted the old deities to strike at Xeryn.\n\n[tags {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY}]
Jel'Kerai (the 'Children of Radience' in Tarkian) is a caste of Tarkians who oppose the Imperial oppressors subjugating their country - some of them openly, but most of them in secret. Because of the broadness of the term, most neutral people - especially country folk - are categorized as members but the true fanatics who wage a guerilla war against the cooperating Handjari are easily distinguishable by their actions. Jel'Kerai worship the god Amon, who represents the sun and the day.\n\n*History*\nTark has always been a land that found itself at odds with Imperials. Before the Calamity, the country was eventually assimilated into the Empire and rebelled just before the arcane cataclysm struck the continent. Jel'Kerai traces its origins to the order of mages going by the same name that was formed during the Third Age in independent Tark as a covenant for enchanters, illusionists, diviners, and elementalists. By nature, these sorcerers were secretive - they only taught their traditional arcane arts to a select few, chosen carefully from the population. They were also respected by commoners and nobles alike for their immense knowledge, so many of them ended up as Viziers or advisors for prominent leaders of the country. When the pre-Calamity Empire conquered Tark and tried to turn it into a province, the Jel'Kerai led the fight against the invaders and lost. Deemed as insurgents and traitors, members of the order were hunted to near-extinction. Those that remained hid in the Atuk Mountains where their mage towers were obscured using complex spells. The Imperials, thinking the enemy was eliminated, cared little about a handful of dispossessed mages.\n\nFollowing the Calamity, the people of Tark resettled their deserts from the mountains under the leadership of the re-emergent Jel'Kerai but they could only enjoy their freedom for a few centuries because the awakened Empire returned and conquered them again. This time, even more people flocked to the opportunities presented by the occupation and the Imperials welcomed collaborators. Chief amongst these were the powerful merchant families who had been seeking political power over the old Tarkian nobility for centuries. They and the Imperials were ideal allies and that alliance laid the foundations of the Handjari, the collaborator caste that Jel'Kerai see as anathema.\n\nThus, from the early days of the Imperial occupation, the Trade Princes of Tark were given power over the cities, becoming governors in return for their cooperation. The followers of Jel'Kerai moved back to obscurity and continued to resist the occupation - a fight that goes on even today with little more than blind hope to cling to. Due to the mages' talents at hiding the truth, however, Imperial and Handjari forces have found it impossible to root out the insurgents. Jel'Kerai managed to convert most desert-dwelling tribes to support their national cause or at least not to oppose it. Nomads of the remotest oases are openly defiant against Imperial rule and are the backbone of the Jel'Kerai caste, while the mountain folk of the Atuk still serve the mages in their hidden towers with utmost loyalty. Lastly, priests of Amon, the sun god, have also joined Jel'Kerai after the priests of Inubis joined forces with the Empire and began massacring their brethren. Most survivors are desert-dwelling dervishes who oppose Imperial occupation and Handjari tyranny wherever they can.\n\n*Structure and Activity*\nJel'Kerai is a secretive group by nature, part caste, part organization, and thus it lacks centralized control for the most part. Certain prominent mages are believed to possess the means to communicate with most other members using magical means - sending visions or dreams, casting their voice over vast distances, and so on. Yet most common Jel'Kerai, mostly nomads and villagers, do not know of any such agendas so they either act independently or only when called to action by an emergent leader. Whenever interacting with strangers or city folk, they hide their true beliefs, including their Amon worship, which has been outlawed by the Handjari.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY}]
Necromancy is the magical art of sensing, manipulating, substituting, and altering the life force of living beings. Although categorized as 'dark magic' and consequently stigmatized all over the known world, the Empire is unique in its acceptance and usage of these powers - so much so, in fact, that Imperials are often considered death-worshippers by other cultures. This is because Ahskul, arguably the most prominent God of the Empire is the King of the Underworld, a god of death in part responsible for Undead, beings reanimated by Necromancy. The Church's stance on these arts is quite rigid: only such magic performed by their members or sanctioned by their members is lawful. Unsanctioned Undead have to be eliminated as they have profaned the holy act of reanimation.\n\nPriests of death gods and sorcerers alike can perform necromantic magic, which is thusly one of the unique arcane arts. Consequently, the Church of Ahskul and independent, licensed Necromancers can teach those with a talent in these dark arts. The most well-known form of Necromancy is the reanimation of the dead, but most practitioners reach that advanced level after mastering simpler spells, like ones that allow the strengthening of necromantic flesh, talking to the spirits of the dead, sensing life force, or disabling Undead. The absolute epitome of Necromancy is the ability to resurrect a dead person into an Undead body, but that is something beyond the reach of all but the most powerful. Sages theorize that this is because doing so requires one to manipulate souls, which is beyond the scope of Necromancy and delves into what is considered Demonic magic. It is known that the Twelve, the Lich lords of the Empire, grant this boon of conscious Undeath to their most loyal servants.\n\nNecromancers can serve the Empire in various positions. Most often they are either assigned to legions to control, maintain, and reanimate a cadre of Undead warriors or to crews that perform manual work like construction where their Undead are used for the worst kind of tasks. A well-known Imperial saying is that 'the bones of the Empire are the bones of the dead', which refers to how much in the Fourth Age was built by the reanimated dead.\n\n[tags {recdbVxBTES840oDS} {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx}]
Ater Manis ('dark hand' in Imperial) is an assassins' guild as well as one of the Imperial religious orders called the Pillars of the Empire (Fulcimus Imperium). It is an extremely secretive organization, one that has been the most hidden from the public eye and rightly so. The spies and assassins are trained and employed by Ater Manis in clandestine operations throughout the realms but their identity is always kept from outsiders. However, the existence and purpose of the order are well-known among the people, and many mysterious killings or disappearances have been attributed to them during the Fourth Age, usually without any sort of evidence. And yet common citizens could never hire the agents of Ater Manis, as that is the privilege of only the most powerful servants of the Empire, like the Twelve, certain Senators, heads of Churches, or prominent noble dynasties. The order and its actions are sanctioned by the highest authority, the Emperor Himself, even though He had long been in stasis by the time of the founding of Ater Manis. Thus, State and Church assassinations are dutifully performed by the order - including those against enemies during wars - but some claim to know that the richest aristocrats and Trading Houses can also hire their services. The Ater Manis worships Bal Ur Kaal and Sergorod in equal measure.\n\n[tags {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY}]
Gruftas are large, ringed annelids or 'worms' that live in wet, humid places, preferably among the refuse of other species. Revolting and aggressive, these creatures often endanger the inhabitants of environments they infest.\n\n*Appearance*\nWorm-like in appearance, adult Gruftas are usually between six and fifteen feet long. Their rubbery, ringed body is always covered in a viscous, foul-smelling fluid they secrete that makes them glisten in normal light, revealing a greenish-brown color underneath. To augment their peristaltic movement, Gruftas have dozens of short tentacles lining their bodies that are used to propel themselves with surprising speed as well as allow them to crawl along walls and ceilings. They can also use their considerable strength to leap ahead, covering thirty feet in the blink of an eye. Barb-like teeth line the circular mouth at one end of their bodies, just below the clusters of black orb-like eyes.\n\n*Behavior*\nGruftas live in nests that are set up where there is a lot of moisture as well as decomposing organic material - partly because the creatures bring their victims back to the vile place. Pods are laid in the disgusting mass of the dwelling and it is here that the colonies of the worms dwell. A horrid stench covers the vicinity of the lair at all times, spreading disease and poisoning anyone staying too long in the area. Nests are notorious for being prone to overpopulation when in the right environment - mostly Imperial city sewers - and Gruftas are known to plague certain settlements because of this. Authorities are usually unsuccessful in rooting them out due to the unpleasantness involved.\n\nEverything about Gruftas is either dangerously toxic to most mortal races or carries terrible diseases: their bite, their skin, their nest, even their excrement. And yet, some alchemists would pay well for certain glands or other organic components harvested from these vile creatures.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x}]
The Twelve are deathless Lich lords who are the de facto rulers of the Empire in the Fourth Age.\n\nThe original members of their cadre were the Apostles, the twelve most trusted servants of the Immortal Emperor recruited from the leaders of the old Imperial religion, transformed into Undead horrors by the Calamity. According to dogma, the Elder Gods descended upon the Empire during the cataclysm to right its wrongs and His Divine Majesty protected the capital city from their wrath. The Apostles aided Him in this endeavor but while the Emperor fell into a slumber-like stasis, the advisors were burned to death - or would have if His Divine Will had not raised them back to be able to serve the realms. During the three Silent Centuries, the Twelve reemerged from the ruins of the Cathedral of Ascension and declared themselves the rulers of the Empire. They soon drew the attention of the Triumvirate and struck a deal with the trio of dark Gods, forming the new Imperial religion as well as their power base in the form of their Churches. Although these organizations soon went to war to become the sole God of the Empire, the Twelve was successful in putting a stop to the atrocities and founded the Fulcimus Imperium to stabilize religious order.\n\nThe Twelve then set out to rebuild the fallen Empire in their own image. The Restoration Period (p.c. 350-450) saw their reinvigorated Imperial forces conquer the Gatelands and the Province, then move onto the rest of the formal Imperial realms. Throughout the bloody centuries of the Fourth Age, the Twelve have led the Empire with an iron will, often escalating conflicts into war in which they relied on their sorcerous might, the aid of the Triumvirate, and the endless Undead legions they command. Most citizens have never seen them, although these Lich lords are said to be terrible to behold, each invested with the power of a demigod. Despite all that, they are not immortal, as history has seen them destroyed a number of times, although it is unclear for most Imperials if new Liches were recruited to their ranks or the previous ones were brought back in some fashion - there seem to be proof for both cases. Many of them sit as governors of provinces, especially problematic ones, or lead wars against the Green Continent, while three are believed to be at their Emperor's side in the Cathedral of Ascension at all times.\n\n[tags {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {recXmsgpnwrAzhCmF} {recdbVxBTES840oDS}]
Even though the Empire is made up of several provinces, 'the Province' is the name of a specific, large realm situated between the Gatelands to the south, Darkmoor in the east, the Funginus Nemus to the west, and the Sepis Mountains to the north. Historically, it is one of the oldest territories held by the Empire.\n\n*History*\nThe collection of realms that was later named the Province existed as city-states and petty kingdoms when the exiled Daromarian tribes reached the fabled land of Aetruas and settled down, forming the Empire. After securing the mountain passes and assimilating the valley tribes, early Imperials started conquering the fragmented realm north of Mount Xyn. Several city-states there seriously challenged the fledgling Empire's ambitions, but none came close to putting an end to the expansion. After centuries of steadily growing the size of their controlled territories, Imperials began calling this large, prosperous realm 'the Province' first out of dismissal against people who they saw as less noble or well-bred than themselves. However, the name stuck and soon became official.\n\nThe Province remained the most loyal supporter of Imperial unity and expansion as well as the wealthiest beside the Hearthlands that formed the core of the Empire. In later eras of the Third Age, the region provided a number of prominent Senators and even Emperors from respectable and rich dynasties. The Calamity struck at the end of the Third Age and the region suffered like the rest of the Empire even though some areas close to Mount Xyn have been protected by the Emperor's divine power as per dogma and so survived nearly untouched into the Fourth Age.\n\nThe current Age has seen the Province keep its prominent status among the Imperial realms even after parts of it were washed away by the newly formed Karginath Sea or consumed by the vast swamps of Darkmoor. In the first post-Calamity centuries, the region was carefully resettled by survivors who took refuge in the Gatelands or underground vaults called /tectums/, then the Twelve re-assimilated it into the Empire in p.c. 376 at the beginning of the /Restoration Period/. The region suffered extensively both during the /Dracis Revansis/ that followed the Dragon War as well as during the Orc War. It also had its share of problems with early slave revolts, mainly in the sixth, ninth, and tenth centuries.\n\n*Economy*\nWith its great harbor cities like Lirinia and Port Navarum, unique resources like grain and grapes that grow on the protected soil of Mount Xyn's foot and the Briar Fields, grim forests that cover the plains just south of the Sepis Mountains, and still functioning mines near Hadrinium, the Province is one of the richest and most essential realms of the present-day Empire. Noble families, wealthy merchants, and Trading Houses have long divided these resources among themselves and breaking this status quo rarely happens. Thus the Province is often seen as a land of few opportunities in sharp contrast to /terra supra/ to the north and west.\n\n*Society*\nPolitics and clandestine schemes are a favorite pastime of the wealthy and the powerful of the Province. Due to its prominence throughout Imperial history, the region also provides more Senators than other provinces of the same size and population, giving it an edge over other realms in lawmaking and executive decisions alike.\n\nAs for its culture, the realm is, in effect, the 'most Imperial' region besides the Hearthlands, although one could argue that the latter has become overly saturated with the grim effect of the Triumvirate and the Twelve and so the former is more traditionally Imperial. It is certainly true in a sense that most families of the Province are less fanatical in their religious beliefs and more pragmatic in their thinking. This might be the reason that there are more daughters and sons of the Province serving in the Imperial military and leading merchant ventures than from any other region.\n\n*Religion*\nImperial religion is naturally predominant in Province, with Ahskul being the most prominent, partly because the Church of the King of Kings owns a lot of territories in the south and partly because Sergorod's influence is focused more on the northern regions engulfed in wars against the Green Continent. Bal Ur Kaal's clergy is also very influential thanks to the realm's obsession with intrigue and politics. Inhabitants of the Province also tend to worship Imperial Saints and proxies more vehemently than those from other realms.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}] [region {regWEZp3LePdB69c602M}]
Imperial tradition states that a Golden Age had been going on for over a thousand years at the end of the Third Age. This exquisitely prosperous and blessed period occurred on behalf of the Gods themselves: they were the ones who guided Valen Xevaris, the Immortal Emperor. Xevaris ascended to the Imperial throne over a thousand years before the Calamity. Him not growing old - or, in fact, not aging at all - was not a natural phenomenon, and so the people of the Empire had started to grow suspicious at first. However, the clergy soon declared that Valen Xevaris is a direct descendant of the Gods themselves, a son of Xyn, the supreme God, and King of the Pantheon.\n\nThe Emperor was thus seen as a demigod, and his popularity grew exponentially in the first few decades of his rule. Supported unquestioningly by the clergy, His Divine Majesty performed miracles on a daily basis - sensitive social engineering, daring political reforms, economic boom, game-changing inventions, glorious military victories, and divine interventions were among the many things attributed to Xevaris. The true extent of his involvement is impossible to say today, but there is no doubt that under his rule, the Empire rose to be the greatest power in the whole world. Imperials also had exceptionally good relations with the Elder Races, to an extent that was unprecedented in the countless ages before or the ones that came after. Peace reigned all across the Empire, even in the most rebellious provinces. People were happy and the realms were prospering.\n\nYet, as all good things must come to an end, the Golden Age started to dwindle as well. The continent’s natural resources were nearly completely depleted, the gap between the rich and the enslaved throngs was wider than ever, and the Emperor seemed to become disinterested in the life of his subjects, as a result of which he withdrew from the public after the first 700 years of his rule, leaving the practical governance of the continent to his trusted Apostles, the highest-ranking priests and priestesses, the most prominent of whom made up the Council of Twelve, the effective ruling body in the Emperor’s name. By this time, the Golden Age was at an end. The following centuries saw a steady decline in the quality of life of the Empire that eventually led to senseless wars, social unrest, and ultimately, to the Calamity.\n\n[tags {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {recLF3Dyip1e2Q7RU}]
The Wyrm's Teeth (sometimes called Wyrm Teeth) is a region of steep, narrow canyons that connect the Dragonlands and the salt lakes at the border of the Jagged Waste. Most of the area is brown, barren rock, arid cliffs beaten by hot winds. Far and wide, the three main valleys here are the only ways to get into or out of the Dragonlands. This is also the reason for the name, given by General Tychus Cavano during the Dragon War. According to historical accounts, the General was to lead his legion into the enemy's realm through the canyons and commented as they descended that he feels like 'entering the maw of a Dragon, surrounded by Wyrm teeth', referring to the fang-like rock formations on each side. Although Cavano and most of his legion never made it back from the region, the name stuck.\n\nClimbing these treacherous cliffs is not easy, and some odd magic makes a lot of people get lost in the maze of ravines and turn back eventually, or perish among the bald rocks. This phenomenon is largely attributed to the presence of the Opal Dragonlord's realm on the other side, well-known for his trickery and arcane powers. As a form of evidence, Drakes are often seen circling above the valleys. Most people gave up on trying to pass through here long, long ago.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i} {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}]
A vast underground forge city, Molegrath is the nest of the Bronze Dragonlord Haerkenrath himself, as well as home to his brood of Dragons and myriad followers. Crowned by two fortresses, the settlement occupies the inside of twin mountain peaks at the south end of the Dragonspine, with great roads leading up its vast entrance gate between the peaks. Holes and chimneys dot the range as it was completely repurposed for metallurgical endeavors and mining. Smoke rises from Molegrath at all hours, clouding the skies and effectively making life on the surface impossible and turning the land into a barren wasteland. This does not seem to bother the Bronze Brood, which occupies the mountains' insides where forges glow hot day and night to produce the best armaments of the Dragonlands.\n\nDespite the difficult approach due to the blanket of smog over the land, many traders come here for the extremely valuable ore and forged wares, so despite Haerkenrath's reported isolationism, Molegrath enjoys a rich trading life and all the benefits of wealthy clients. To protect all these, a veritable army of soldiers and Dragonguard patrol the city and its surroundings. The Dragonlord himself is said to be nesting in the deepest caverns where lava flows like rivers; this is where his legendary hoard must also be, but no mortal has ever laid eyes upon it yet and lived to tell the tale.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i}]\n[node {nodY7E73MGkoRd31f00q}]
Argador is the Green Dragonlord, one of the living demigods and founders of the Dragonlands, the originator and absolute ruler of the Green Dragon Brood along with its armies and lands.\n\nHaving arrived at the continent of Xeryn following the Calamity, Argador chose to stay with his six brethren and cast a spell on a region in the middle of the continent to reinvigorate it with resources and fertility. According to legend, the Green Lord had a sudden change of heart after deciding to decline his brethren's invitation to form the Dragonlands and ended up giving his great power to complete the incantation. He then settled the ruins of the old city of Heldontias, situated at the heart of Darkmoss Swamp, renaming it the Noxious Den for the poisonous fumes and fauna that define the place. During the wars that followed and cemented the Dragonlands as one of the greatest powers of the continent, Argador and his brood took part in the fighting, setting up ambushes and using great tactical superiority to win battles. Since that time, the Green Lord and his people have been considered secretive and furtive, ever spying on potential enemies and - if the darkest rumors are to be believed - even applying questionable methods such as subterfuge and assassinations.\n\nArgador has always been known as the furtive, suspicious, but inquisitive one of the Dragonlords, hiding in his fetid swamp, gathering news and knowledge of the goings-on of the world quietly. Not many can know the Green Dragonlord's mind, not even his fellow Lords if rumors are true. At least on several occasions, Argador has threatened to secede from the Dragonlands and is generally considered to be the least cooperative of the five. His Draconic Flame is manifested as toxic, acidic gas, and these powers are granted to his brood and proxies alike. Argador is also very adept at amassing worldly riches as well, having been bloating his hoard in his nest for millennia, and is said to be most reluctant to give any of it up. It is no wonder that the Ratharnak Alliance, one of the most powerful Trading Houses on the continent, was founded under his wing. Like most other Dragonlords, Argador does not like to show himself and rules through his senior Dragon children as well as his Voice, a mage of great power who sits on the council in the realm's capital.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x} {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY}]
Haerkenrath is the Bronze Dragonlord, one of the living demigods and founders of the Dragonlands, the originator and absolute ruler of the Bronze Dragon Brood along with its armies and lands.\n\nHaving arrived at the continent of Xeryn following the Calamity, Haerkenrath chose to stay with his six brethren and cast a spell on a region in the middle of the continent to reinvigorate it with resources and fertility. According to legend, the Bronze Lord was the most skeptical of the five and its brethren had to convince him to add his considerable powers to the incantation. He then settled Molegrath, a slumbering, volcanic mountain range, into which his Brood dug vast caverns and tunnels, mining out the rich ores that emerged thanks to the ritual. During the wars that followed and cemented the Dragonlands as one of the greatest powers of the continent, Haerkenrath and his brood took part reluctantly and provided most of the Dragonsteel armaments of the newly formed Dragonguard and Dragon Armies. Since that time, the Bronze Lord and his people have been considered the greatest craftsmen, smiths, and miners of the realm, ever delving into the earth's depths, ever perfecting the magical art of Dragonsteel forging.\n\nHaerkenrath has always been known as the reticent, quarrelsome, and difficult one of the Dragonlords, utterly dedicated to his beloved metallurgy and little else. Secluded and pedantic, the Bronze Dragonlord has been known as the holder of the secrets of Dragonsteel who only bestows his boons on those that do not provoke his ire. His Draconic Flame is manifested as lava-like liquid fire, his roar is like an earthquake, and these powers are granted to his brood and proxies alike. Haerkenrath considers himself a craftsman or even an artist whose attention is constantly diverted by irritating nuisance. However, the Bronze Lord is also one of the most materialistic and economically-inclined among his kin, prolifically gathering riches thanks to his interests in mining, smithing, and trading. His hoard is said to be unrivaled by the other Dragonlords. This penchant for wealth accumulation has given rise to the Ratharnak Alliance, one of the greatest trading powers of the continent, forever bent on getting their hands on ore and other riches. Like most other Dragonlords, Haerkenrath does not like to show himself and rules through his senior Dragon children as well as his Voice, a mage of great power who sits on the council in the realm's capital.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x} {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY}]
The Nosferatis Sisterhood is a coven of sorceresses and one of the Imperial religious orders called the Pillars of the Empire (Fulcimus Imperium). It is an extremely secretive organization, one that is best described as an association of sadistic witches and purveyors of dark secrets. Only a few Imperials know - but most have a vague notion - that the Sisters in fact research magic and natural sciences. Dabbling in all the known sorcerous arts in an attempt to unlock more potent and ingenious powers, the Sisterhood has mastered blood magic, soul manipulation, necromancy, magical charms, arcane sacrifices, and prophetic divination. No act is too depraved for them if it is in the service of the Empire. Countless new kinds of Undead, mutants, spells, rituals, and dark truths came into the possession of the Empire throughout the ages thanks to Nosferatis' efforts. The Sisterhood has ties to Imperial espionage and also takes part in clandestine magical rituals to further the goals of the Twelve. Some of their services are open to the public in settlements where they have convents, but most of the population shuns the Sisters out of fear. The Nosferatis worship Bal Ur Kaal and Ahskul, and only take women into their ranks, expecting utter loyalty to their dark cause.\n\n[tags {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY}]
Several days of travel east of Deven lies an ancient valley that crisscrosses the Jagged Plains with its side-valleys and dells. This is the Valley of Sleepers, a haunted place that houses the magnificent tombs of the Varotians, an ancient people that died out with the Calamity.\n\n*Description*\nThe arid valley floor is mostly empty, save for the occasional boulder or collapsed rock pile. Here and there, remains of old statues or monuments appear in the windless silence. The tombs and temples are carved directly into the hard, red-tinged rock of the steep valley walls, their delicate detail still mostly intact due to a combination of natural shelter from the elements, ancient craftsmanship, and perhaps even magical means. Few dare go inside these dark, gaping halls but those that do describe beautiful carvings and untouched riches. At night, the tombs are said to be glowing with an eerie light and even from a distance, strange whispering can be heard.\n\n*History*\nEven before Imperial times, the indigenous people who lived in the region, the Varotians, built tombs and temples into the rockface of the valleys. After joining the Empire as a small province, they still kept their sacred valley in good order and their nobility used the tombs still to bury their dead. The Calamity destroyed most of the region and killed its people, yet the Valley seemed to escape the destruction, and the tombs and temples attracted many survivors during and after the events. At least until people figured out that no one came back from them. It is unclear what happens to those that spend the night there, but apparently, they fall asleep and disappear. It is either this rumor or the fact that the Varotians have been at rest here for millennia is that gives the place its name. Imperial authorities do not wish to spend the resources to find out what goes on there, so they advise travelers to avoid the place. Nowadays, scavengers and tomb robbers sometimes sneak in but usually leave before sundown - or do not leave at all.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i}] [region {regog7v3R6C1z70eb028}]
Ghorfimbul is the Opal Dragonlord, one of the living demigods and founders of the Dragonlands, the originator and absolute ruler of the Opal Dragon Brood along with its armies and lands.\n\nHaving arrived at the continent of Xeryn following the Calamity, Ghorfimbul chose to stay with his six brethren and cast a spell on a region in the middle of the continent to reinvigorate it with resources and fertility. Legends imply that the Opal Lord was the one who led - or even designed - the ritual. He settled the Glittering Pit, a great chasm dug by the Brood, astonishingly rich in gems and crystals, found in the middle of the Bleak. During the wars that followed and cemented the Dragonlands as one of the greatest powers of the continent, Ghorfimbul and his brood remained behind, forever secretive, supporting their kin primarily with arcane magic. The Dragonlord's people guard and patrol the western borders of the country along the jagged cliffs of Wyrm's Teeth where several narrow valleys allow entry into the Dragonlands.\n\nGhorfimbul has always been known as the most elusive and secretive Dragonlord, utterly dedicated to his beloved art of arcane magic. Unknowable and reticent, the Opal Dragonlord has always been considered the wisest of them all, though his mysterious advice is often misunderstood. As changing as the colors of opal, Ghorfimbul is a master of trickery and illusions. His Draconic Flame is manifested as pure arcane energy, his roar is like a blast of force, and these powers are granted to his brood and proxies alike. Ghorfimbul considers himself a researcher and a scholar, whose duty is the pushing of boundaries with magic, which will reveal the fundamental secrets of reality. He is constantly saddened by the fact that his kin is confined to the Dragonlands and can not delve into the ancient secrets and hidden powers of the continent freely. That is if one believes that organizations like the Scythichnis Covenant do not serve his interests with their secretive agendas. Like most other Dragonlords, Ghorfimbul does not like to show himself and rules through his senior Dragon children as well as his Voice, a mage of great power who sits on the council in the realm's capital.\n\n[tags {recXmsgpnwrAzhCmF} {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY}]
One of the largest continuous arcane anomalies of the continent, the Vortex is exactly what the name implies: a huge storm vortex that converges on a seemingly fixed point. It came into being during the Calamity, devastating the ancient lands of the Varotian province, and has not moved ever since, nor abated.\n\nThe winds are less devastating on the outskirts but become very strong going in, so much so that men and beasts that dare enter are never seen again. Even before that boundary though, going is made difficult by the constant presence of debris in the air. Similarly destructive are the lightning strikes that plague its shrouded expanse. Yet despite its stormy nature, the Vortex produces no water. Sometimes tempest clouds break off the main Vortex and are hurled in a random direction, wreaking havoc in their path until they eventually dissolve into nothingness.\n\nNobody knows what is in the middle of the Vortex, but a popular theory is that a cyclopean creature is buried there, its mouth gaping at the sky, hoping to eat whatever comes into its vicinity. The almost rhythmically diminishing and strengthening winds do remind observant individuals of breathing. Most folks avoid this place completely as there are no benefits to loitering about it but enough danger involved to deter even the most adventurous wanderers.\n\n[tags {recdbVxBTES840oDS} {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx}]
The Spires are ancient monuments of obscure construction and mysterious origins. They stand a few miles from the entrances of the city of Deven in the middle of a large, flat expanse of the Jagged Waste.\n\n*Description*\nOccupying a mostly circular area that is several miles across, the Spires are made up of jet black pillars ranging from 20 to 600 feet in height, placed at varying distances from each other to form an odd forest of dark, glassy stone. Extensive excavation revealed that each pillar continues under the sandy ground for hundreds of feet and is based on the solid rock below. The material the Spires are made of has baffled scholars: it feels like glass or stone to the touch, and the surface is smooth to the extreme. There is not a single scratch or other unevenness on them and they seem to be utterly impervious to mundane as well as arcane damage. Each one was seemingly made of a single piece of raw material. The surface of each pillar is the darkest matte black and seems to swallow the light. The air is cool and it does not move inside the Spires, not even in the most brutal storms. The pillars themselves are also cool to the touch, even when the sun directly hits their surface. All in all, the sheer size and odd qualities of the monuments betray thaumaturgical construction on an unprecedented scale.\n\n*History*\nThird Age history tells us that the Spires were erected at the end of that era about a dozen miles to the west of the original site of the small town of Deven, which was utterly decimated during the Calamity that spared these monuments. Construction began about 50 years before the cataclysm and the site was off-limits to anyone but the crew and select members of the clergy. Two of the Emperor's Apostles oversaw the project, the design of which was attributed to the elusive sovereign. Whether the Spires were finished or their construction was interrupted by the Calamity is anyone's guess. No accounts exist of the monuments' purpose or design either, at least not ones available to the general public.\n\nEver since the resurgence of the Empire in the Fourth Age, the Spires have baffled scholars and explorers alike. Excavations, research, and magical inquiries have produced some interesting tidbits about them in the last millennia but nothing solved the mystery of the pillars. For this reason, they have been little more than a landmark in the current Age, albeit quite an astonishing one. Most travelers avoid the Spires, however, as it seems to make people uneasy at close proximity.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i}]
Salum is a township that was annexed by the Dragonlands centuries ago along with the region of Brine Mere. Lacking the will and means to harvest the valuable salt here efficiently, the Dragons settled for being able to prevent the Empire from tapping into this resource.\n\n*Description*\nSalum is a well-guarded small town with huts of white stone and dark roofs baking in the sun. Awnings of all colors are stretched over narrow streets and open-air lounges, but the blue-white of the Scythichnis Covenant and the green-bronze of the Ratharnak Alliance are the most prominent. A low wall serves more as a boundary than a defensive structure, and houses have already sprung up outside its ring. The blindingly white salt flats fill the horizon to the north - one can descend over a series of terraces down into the basin from Salum. At all hours, Drakes are in the sky, their riders patrolling the area with great vigilance.\n\n*History*\nThe town of Salum was given over to the Dragonlands as part of the peace treaty after the Dragon War. The Imperials let go of the area begrudgingly, knowing that the salt here is astonishingly valuable, yet also understanding that the Dragons are not well-equipped to harvest it, seeing how they shun slave labor. The Dragonlords, on the other hand, thinking that the salt that could be mined here would be a powerful asset did not realize the hardships that go along with salt mining. Thus the yield of the region has since Salum's Draconic ownership been stunted. Recently, however, the Scythichnis has managed to build an operation here that became more profitable.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl}]\n[node {nodLDSe3LdUmg69c600W}]
Tectum Carvos is an Imperial town in the western reaches of Arenas Vorax, occupying a system of caves carved by the ancestors of the Sand Wyrms that plague these deserts.\n\n*Description*\nA cluster of solid, rocky hills in the middle of the sandy dunes of Arenas Vorax hide a system of caves originally carved by tunneling, worm-like creatures. These were settled by Imperials who built dwellings in the halls and into the walls as well. A handful of stone towers rise from the protective stone shell that covers the main cavern, which was created by people removing tunnel walls to create a city hub. By all accounts, Tectum Carvos was a mostly abandoned town, with empty tunnels and homes. Only a handful of military personnel manning the towers roamed the hub. That changed fairly recently, however, when new settlers arrived. Now the town is a jumble of new and old structures underground, complete with colorful Tarkian awnings and Dark Elven architecture.\n\n*History*\nTectum Carvos used to be a natural /tectum/ that was originally carved by the Wyrms of these regions during the Third Age and subsequently abandoned by the creatures. Centuries after the Calamity, travelers discovered the place and deduced that its people must have perished not long after the catastrophe for some unknown reason. The /tectum/ was resettled and became a small township under Imperial rule. Unfortunately, the Wyrms reemerged - mutated and twisted into present-day Sand Wyrms - in p.c. 678 and attacked the /tectum/ along with other settlements, drawn to their old nesting grounds. They annihilated most of the population of Carvos but the large Undead legion that was sent here in response allied with Dark Elves and Sadirar tribes to push the horrible beasts back into the desert. The creatures were hunted to nigh-extinction and by p.c. 691 they all but disappeared from the region. Because of water in the underground caverns and the relative proximity of Dragmolac, a token Imperial presence remained, but the settlement was all but abandoned. Four decades ago, Tarkian and Imperial settlers decided to move in with the blessing of the Triumvirate and Tectum Carvos started to develop once again. Now there is talk of the return of Sand Wyrms again and rumors are spreading that the vile creatures are beginning to circle the settlement.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl}]\n[node {nod694b3LdXBL69c6006}]
One of the many work camps of the Empire, Auguros was set up at Brine Mere for above-ground salt and rock mining by slave and prisoner hands as well as to keep undesirables under guard at a very remote location.\n\n*Description*\nSituated on a small peninsula reaching over the salt bed of Alkalis Basin, the camp is fortified sufficiently by circles of low walls and is overseen by watchtowers. A single, extremely tall tower is at the center, below which is the main garrison building. Imperial patrols and guards are quite lax because supposedly escaping the confines of the camp is a death sentence due to the harshness of the wasteland. Conversely, slave handlers are very enthusiastic, as their payment grows with the amount of salt harvested by their brigades.\n\n*History*\nOnce the Empire consolidated its power during the Restoration Period, an outpost was established on the northern tip of Alkalis Basin - in part to mine salt, to observe the Vortex, and also because the south and east were too close to the Dragonlands. Unfortunately, the salt in the eastern basin was much worse in quality and less in quantity than it was to the west, so the outpost was abandoned. After the Dragon War, however, the Empire rebuilt it to serve as a prison colony that extracted as much salt as possible, especially since they lost Salum and Brine Mere to the Dragonlords. Ever since Auguros has served as a work camp and a salt mine with middling efficiency. Due to the harsh environment and the remote location, escaping is quite impossible, so thousands of unfortunates labor here knowing that this is the end of the line for them. Because a large part of the Imperial salt - which is a measure of wealth for many citizens - comes from the region, a sizeable garrison is kept here at all times to deter outlaws and tribes from theft.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]\n[node {nodHYo83LdW7g69c602o}]
This large oasis is called the ‘last’ because it is the westernmost one in the region. A small outpost was built here long ago, guarded mostly by Sadirar tribal warriors who welcome travelers and provide shelter. Despite this, few come this far into the desert as there is not much to be found in the vicinity.\n\n*Description*\nSurrounding a beautiful, azure lake among sandy dunes and the odd stone outcropping, the Last Oasis is a glade of palm trees and other fauna that stretch half a mile in all directions from the water's edge. At the heart of it all is a compound of sandstone buildings and tents - stables, a broken tower, and huts - that form an improvised /statio/. Traveling Sadirar tribesmen can often be found around the oasis and the outpost in the middle.\n\n*History*\nThe Last Oasis is a remote place, formed after the Calamity when the lake came to be near the foot of the mountains. Once the Sadirar emerged and took to wandering the deserts, they quickly happened upon the place and felt the Great Spirits' presence there. Vitrar tribesmen began to plant seeds and by the Restoration Period, the oasis has become a lush and pleasant place. It took the Sadirar all their combined might to prevent the wyrms from destroying the place during the war with the creatures but by some miracle, it did survive. Today there are only a few people here usually at any given time. That is because the Sadirar do not let anyone settle down in or around the oasis permanently, claiming it to be sacred ground and part of the treaty between the Empire and the tribes is that holy places are untouchable.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl}]
A /tectum/ is a vault - usually underground - built or improvised to house people in a catastrophic event. The heydey of /tectii/ came with the Calamity and the following couple of centuries when a large part of the Empire's population lived in one. Many such vaults were constructed for different reasons at the end of the Third Age, so some theorize that it proves the ancients were already expecting something like the Calamity. These, along with natural vaults like vast cave systems and the like were then occupied by survivors during or right after the cataclysm. Dwellers turned them into self-contained cities and in some cases, generations lived down in the darkness, sustaining themselves through novel means until they could emerge into the post-Calamity world. In other cases, like with the city of Larnak, the /tectum/ was expanded time and again to form a large underground settlement. And then there were the ones that failed for one reason or another - lost to magical anomalies, unspeakable creatures, disease, hunger, or infighting. Some of the more mysterious ones have never been found as there seems to be no comprehensive guide that lists all of the /tectii/. Treasure hunters and adventurers are always looking for untapped /tectii/ in the hopes of gaining untold riches from the sealed vaults. More often than not only an ugly death awaits in these dark, forsaken places.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
The Kal-rish look like a cross between humans and goats, a nomadic race that roams the wastelands of Xeryn. They are hunters, traders, and warriors with ancient traditions who have shunned the comforts of a settled life.\n\n*Appearance*\nKal-rish are best described as half-man, half-goat - humanoid from the waist up and goat-like from below the waist. Somewhat taller than humans, they sport goat-like features and eyes. Due to their build, Kal-rish can manage amazing speed when running. Males always have at least a pair of horns. There are many variations of form and curvature, and some individuals even have a crown of horns with a prominent pair among them. Females have a pair of small horns, sometimes barely visible. Fur covers the Kal-rish's bottom half, ranging in color from brown to grey or black. Males typically grow long beards and braid them much like females braid their hair.\n\n*History*\nKal-rish are a race that arrived from the Outer Realms to Xeryn after the Calamity tore open fissures between planes. The wandering tribes of the goatmen had been nomads of the Outer Realms for countless generations by then, ever since their displacement after the fall of their own world thousands of years ago. Seeing a potentially safer new home for their large herds, Kal-rish tribes migrated in great numbers to Xeryn at the behest of their chieftains. The race has since managed to adapt to the continent and its inhabitants well, becoming well-known as traveling merchants. In this, they are especially successful because they can carry their wares on their backs while still being able to maintain great speed. Some herds have settled down after centuries of wandering and thrive in places where no others can, like in the Forlorn Waste. Their kind has been consistent in staying out of the greater conflicts of the Fourth Age, earning neither dedicated allies nor fierce enemies.\n\n*Culture*\nKal-rish are fierce warriors, accomplished hunters, and agile scouts often sought after by many in such lines of work. They live in large families in which a patriarch has the final say on matters. Groups of families are organized into a tribe, also called a herd. Most tribes are nomadic, living off the wasteland by hunting, gathering, and trading with other tribes or other races. Tribes are not easy to anger, but when embroiled in a fight, they are known to use hit and run tactics as well as their great speed to overcome their enemies. Kal-rish are extremely loyal to herds and are known to be tough survivors, having easily adapted to the wastelands of Xeryn after many centuries of wandering the inhospitable plains of the Outer Realms.\n\nTheir material culture leans towards the practical, with minimal decoration, using natural resources like bone, fur, and leather - these are easier to come by than most other materials for the Kal-rish. Most tribes are omnivores, although in the distant past they used to be herbivores. Some herds still try to adhere to this ancient custom and see eating meat as a sin, albeit sometimes necessary to survive. Kal-rish are generally quite xenophobic when it comes to their herds, not allowing other races to observe their traditions that in turn seem alien to others. Their kind is generally considered dishonest and miserly, even filthy and thieving by Imperials, but that does not stop the Kal-rish to carve out a piece of trading for themselves in larger cities.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x} {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW}]
The Border Range is a region of high hills that separates the Jagged Waste from the Forlorn Waste north and the no man's land east of it, which technically belongs to the Dragonlands, but has been uninhabited since the war. Earth forts used to line the range after the war against the Dragons but they became obsolete as the Dragonlords became allies, so most were abandoned and torn down. The few that were not are now used by outlaw gangs and liberated tribes who prey upon travelers on nearby roads. The Border Range is mostly a rolling row of dark brown, bramble-covered, or bald hills intersected by deep chasms and ravines.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {reg5ntV3R6Eix70eb03h}]
One of the largest stone forests of the Jagged Waste, Stonethorn is a cluster of many thousand stone spires with pointed ends that were once carved out by magical winds during and after the Calamity. As opposed to most other such forests, however, this one is a relatively narrow, long expanse between the Jagged and Forlorn Wastes.\n\n*Description*\nStonethorn is a hill region where each hilltop is crowned by a brownish stone pillar of pointed ends and of varying height - generally between 12 and 120 feet, but there are gigantic ones that reach several hundred feet. This ‘stone forest’ covers long ranges that look like mountains from afar. On the ground level, the round bases of the thorns form a veritable maze, where one can hide from the killing sun and brutal wind of the Wastes. Yet the region has remained arid, hot, and devoid of natural resources. Oddly, the ash-like dust of the Forlorn Waste seems to stop spreading at the border of Stonethorn - this is certainly not a natural phenomenon.\n\n*History*\nStonethorn was carved by magical winds during and right after the Calamity after a range of mountains appeared here due to seismic activity. Ever since then, it was beaten by the sun and the gale from north and south. Because of its remoteness from Imperial hubs as well as a good defense against heat and wind, Stonethorn is a popular hiding place for outlaws and fugitives but has some hidden camps and outposts of different factions as well. Strange wildlife makes its home among the thorns, hunting other beasts and men alike. A lot of these creatures are climbers and take advantage of the amazing rock canopy above most other beings' heads.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {reghpeH3R6EhQ70eb03g}]
Ever since the Calamity, mutations and arcane afflictions of all kinds are commonplace on the continent, with the Taint being the best-known and most widespread of these. A correlation between the arcane fallout by the cataclysm and the mutations has never been validated by sages or magic users - nevertheless, everyone believes there to be one. Every third human on the continent of Xeryn is Tainted, that is, mutated by this strange arcane condition. Interestingly, no other race seems to contract the Taint, though there are rumors of Elves getting Tainted and dying of it (or killed by their own people). Dwarves do get mutations and end up becoming bestial, often slain when they attack others - yet it remains extremely rare.\n\nIt is believed that the Taint is a disease, a contagion that has no cure. That said, nobody has successfully proven how or even /if/ it is transferred from person to person. Half the time, a newborn child is Tainted, no matter if the parents are Tainted themselves or 'healthy'. The other half of the time, the Taint takes hold of a person during their life unexpectedly, but most often during late childhood or puberty. The Taint begins with a period of incubation when the victim falls gravely sick and suffers seizures and spells for days or weeks. About half of them perish during this interval. The transformation starts after a day or so following the initial seizure and the changes remain for life, though in some rare cases, further changes manifest later. Symptoms are always physical but are often paired with serious mental disorders - either due to the traumatic nature of the transformation or the nature of the Taint itself; nobody knows for certain. The most common symptoms include skin color and texture change, fleshy growths, boils and scars, enlarged or shrunken body parts (almost never symmetrically), and the merging of the physical aspects of different species (part beast, part human mutants are fairly common). Even today, and especially despite its vast presence, the Taint is a great mystery to medical and magical sciences. No cure or reversal exists for it. Sometimes, intense medical care can save someone in the process of transformation from dying, but that is the extent of what can be done.\n\nThere is a considerable social stigma associated with the Taint but it seems to concentrate on higher social classes. High society still shuns the Tainted but they have become so common that most commoners do not even notice them, and a lot of the Tainted can live full lives. Since proximity does not seem to aid the spread of the Taint, pogroms against the Tainted generally ceased all over Xeryn a long time ago.\n\n[tags {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx} {recdbVxBTES840oDS}]
Lavendius is an Imperial saint, one of the many deified mortals revered in the Empire and acknowledged by the Triumvirate's Churches. In life, he was a young warrior, born 300 years after the Calamity. When the cataclysm occurred, many fled to the safety of a nearby /tectum/, including Lavendius' ancestors. Unfortunately for the descendants of the survivors, the vault was compromised and chaos ensued around p.c. 339. The people then recalled a nearby cave system that could shelter them - in some versions of the story, Lavendius led them there. Upon arriving at the cluster of rocky hills after braving the constant arcane storms, however, they found that a great beast, later called the /Tesselat Maximus/, occupied the place with its spawn, a nest of serpentine, burrowing wyrms. In the fight that ensued, Lavendius slew the gigantic creature and turned the tide of battle. For this heroic act, he has been revered by the descendants of the people who found a new home in the caverns and founded Sun Rock. He is seen as a symbol of courage, resourcefulness, and sacrifice, especially since some versions of the story conclude with Lavendius' death from his wounds. The near-fanatic reverence of the hero by the local cult could not be suppressed by the Triumvirate's Churches, so they canonized him as a Saint of the Empire during the fifth century. This acceptance into the pantheon changed him into an Imperial soldier but no citizen of Sun Rock thinks of him so.\n\n[tags {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {recLF3Dyip1e2Q7RU}]
Sun Rock is a sizeable town on the Scorched Road that leads from Deven into the northwestern Jagged Waste. Locals worship a hero of old who slew a great beast to vacate the cave that became their settlement. Today, Sun Rock is a busy trading town where crystal harvesters, miners, traders from Deven and Ash, Sadirar tribesmen, as well as outlaws from the north converge.\n\n*Description*\nSituated in a cluster of rocky hills, Sun Rock is a system of caves and dwellings carved into the central, large hill. From afar, the hill looks like a giant hive, all holes, and chasms, baking under the gaze of the deadly sun during the day. Entering the town through one of the large holes leads into the central cavern that used to be the lair of the tunneling creature that was supposed to be slain at the beginning of the Fourth Age. From this hub, a myriad of tunnels, chambers, halls, corridors, and pits have been carved into the solid rock throughout the ages to create a maze-like city underground, safe from the choking heat of the wasteland. Even so, the town's most prestigious parts are the ones at the top, lit during the day sufficiently thanks to the great holes all over its protective stone shell. One of the most striking features to be discovered here are statues of the great hero Lavendius, usually posed in glory over a slain wyrm.\n\n*History*\nThe founders of Sun Rock were the descendants of people from a nearby /tectum/ who fled their vault when it became compromised after three centuries of the Calamity and scrambled to where the town is today to settle into the protected caves. Apparently, a creature called /Tesselat Maximus/ dug the caves, and the vaulters, fleeing from arcane storms, had to fight it and its spawn of wyrms for the place and thus for survival. This gave rise to the local hero myth of Lavendius, the young man who slew the cyclopean beast and turned the tide of battle. Thus, Sun Rock was founded in p.c. 340 at the location of the caves. Citizens of later centuries were so fanatic in his reverence that the Twelve had to make him an official saint of the Empire.\n\n[node {nodr5833LdUVX69c600j}]\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
Orcs on the continent of Xeryn are either without religion or follow a spirit faith that came to exist almost simultaneously with their alien race.\n\nOrcs were godless from the beginning despite all the efforts of the Twelve to convert them to follow the Triumvirate. As their very creation and existence are intimately connected to the spirits of the dead, their belief system revolves around these same specters and the idea that by living a life of battle and courage, their own souls return to their rightful place in the afterlife instead of haunting this world. When someone dies a craven or without honor, their souls are thought to remain behind in the Riven Realms, trapped in torment and damnation forever. Live a life of honor and battle and your soul will return to the turbulent place in the afterlife where the spirits of warriors fight jolly battles for eternity - the very place where the Twelve drew the souls of Orcs and placed them in sorcerous bodies. This circle is considered natural and acceptable for most Orcs, though there are varied theories about where newborn Orcs' souls come from and how they are related to this cycle.\n\nThis spirit faith is propagated by shamans and meshes surprisingly well with Orcish warrior culture. Shamans can communicate with spirits and make them divulge information or even manifest briefly to scare or hurt their enemies. Spirits and their will are much respected in Orcish society and even the most savage warrior can be swayed by matters of the specters of their forefathers. Each tribe has its own shaman or shamans, and typically these spiritual leaders have a great influence on the chieftains. Some tribes are outright governed by shamans, though interestingly they tend to be the less aggressive ones.\n\nRecently, a new direction of the spirit faith has emerged, one that claims that spirits are restless exactly because Orcs keep fighting among themselves and with others, and that the burden of the cycle will only stop if the tribes start to live in tranquility and in balance with nature. The shamans who preach these radical and clearly craven ideas tend to be scorned by valiant tribes with storied pasts but there is talk of this belief spreading quietly, turning more and more Orcs every day who are tired of continued violence.\n\n[tags {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY}]
The Elves of Xeryn in the Fourth Age are the descendants of the immortal Elves of Dor Anthelas, the Southern Elfhome. They are a broken, defeated race, made mortal by the Calamity where they lost everything. That loss turned into a cold rage that motivates Elves to hunt down and kill powerful sorcerers who they believe are responsible for the arcane cataclysm.\n\n*Appearance*\nElves are tall and pale, once proud and beautiful beyond mortals, now a shadow of their former selves, and are thus called Gwaeth ('Shadows') by their own kind and kin. They have pointed ears, and possess keen senses as well as a lithe yet powerful build.\n\n*History*\nThe masters of sorcery and the forces of nature, the Elves of Dor Anthelas were chief among the allies and teachers of the Empire that the Exiles of Daromar built at the onset of the Third Age. They founded independent city-states all over the continent and stayed friendly with the Imperials through the millennia that followed. The Calamity, however, struck Dor Anthelas with ferocity, burning down its tranquil forests, leaving survivors only because of the powerful sorcerous defenses of the nation. Ever since that terrible day, the Elves of that realm have started to age and die eventually, usually around their 300th year, barring sickness or injury. Upon realizing this, a great many of them perished in anguish or by taking their own lives, and those that remained swore to renounce magic and hunt down its destructive practitioners where they can.\n\nA thousand years later, Dor Anthelas is a fallen nation in complete isolation from the rest of the continent. Elves are not uncommon abroad, however, and are generally looked upon with disdain, being known schemers and spies, always looking for powerful magic users to assassinate or sorcerous secrets to steal. Yet precisely because of their status as pariahs and gatherers of information, they are often paid to divulge what they know of important matters; they do so most of the time because what they receive in return is required to keep their dire cause going. In fact, the only reason the race has not died out is their forceful procreation in order to follow the great agenda of ridding the world of destructive sorcery. The Last Tree, the source of their former immortality, is deep within their lands - damaged, but still holding onto life. It is said that the day it finally withers and dies is the day the world itself will die.\n\n*Culture*\nElven culture has become twisted and dark just like the now-mortal Gwaeth Elves themselves. They still dwell in forests, though Dor Anthelas is nothing but a burned, thorny husk now, barely reminiscent of the grand temperate jungles of yore. They keep using bows and stealth in combat, and their great knowledge now is reduced to methods of poisoning, assassinations, scouting, and spying. Isolationism is the key to Elven culture: they let nobody into Dor Anthelas apart from their own people, and they have become paranoid protectors of the Last Tree. The only reason they keep going is a bitter, cold rage that corrupted their hearts. For these reasons, nobody knows for certain how their dwindling society is structured, and most Elves are encountered solitarily in the Empire - and more often than not are given a wide berth.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW}]
Half-Elves are halfbreeds of humans and Gwaeth Elves, or of Half-Elves. They were present on the continent as far back as the Second Age, and although never great in numbers or united on any level, they continued to appear until the present day. Independent by nature and pushed on by wanderlust, they roam Xeryn in search of adventure.\n\n*Appearance*\nHalf Elves retain the pointed ears, magnificent sight, and light-footedness of their Elven parent and the adaptability of their human one. Otherwise, their appearance is as varied as their origins can be.\n\n*History*\nHalf-Elves must have existed before the Calamity but no record of their survival exists today. However, not all the Elves of Dor Anthelas took their own lives after the arcane cataclysm or became embittered to the point of insanity. Some of them stayed by the Last Tree, while others wandered out into the world and lived out their remaining years among the mortals who survived the Calamity. Some of these Elves mingled with humans and their progeny are known as the Pereldin, the Half-Elves. They themselves also produce Half-Elven children with either Elves, humans, or - more likely - other Half-Elves. This kept happening in the Fourth Age and so this strange race has kept appearing constantly until the present day.\n\n*Culture*\nHalf-Elves do not have a culture or realm of their own and typically live their lives on the road or among other folk - most likely humans. Most Gwaeth Elves consider them abominations and most humans think of them as Elves - treacherous and furtive - so they do not trust them. This might also be the reason for their vagabond lifestyle apart from a wanderlust that sets in at an early age. Half-Elves live up to 120-180 years on average.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW}]
The Order of Kajubra Sha (Kajubra means 'magnificent' in Dajmahan) is an order of sorceresses who are the rulers of Dajmaha, researchers of magic, and spiritual leaders of their realm at the same time. Magically active young women are taught how to handle their powers by the Order and to navigate the politics and religious life of Dajmaha. They have opposed Imperial colonization efforts for centuries now but look towards a bleak future if the Empire decides to invade.\n\n*History*\nThe Order was founded by shamans who were known as a loose affiliation of mystics and seers in the fourth century following the War of Sorcerers many thousands of years ago. In that epoch, the Zenraki warlock-kings ruled over Dajmaha, a land that fell into chaos after surviving the cracking of the old continent into two separate landmasses. The mystics overthrew the dark mages but failed - or did not wish - to consolidate power and disappeared again for a long time, leaving Dajmaha without evil overlords, albeit without a unified rule. The Order re-emerged after the Calamity, which largely avoided the northeastern peninsula and they now possessed a strong will to unite Dajmaha and forge it into a strong and autonomous realm.\n\nIn the centuries to come, the sorceresses used their powers to aid a lot of the many thousands of tribes through their hardships in the jungles and slowly built a lot of goodwill. When the time came, they took many tribes to the coastline where they rebuilt three ziggurat cities and in the next centuries managed to form a new society that became prominent in Dajmaha. Many more flocked to the cities to live according to the Shalimi, a new religion and philosophy that the sorceresses taught to their subjects. They also installed a Queen, chosen from among their ranks, to be the face of rule, a sovereign people could turn to with their problems.\n\nWhen the Empire invaded Dajmaha in p.c. 549, they destroyed the city of Kobua, and Lhouzm was built down the coast to provide dwellings for survivors. The Imperials held onto the realm for a hundred years, and for that time the Order disappeared into the jungles where the legions could not root them out. They organized their return in secret and toppled Imperial rule, timing their own revolt to that of Tark. They have been the uncontested rulers of the realm ever since and are preparing for the return of the invaders.\n\n*Structure and Activity*\nThe Order is led by the most experienced and powerful sorceresses who sit in council over matters of state and magic. The Queen is on the council as well, though her most important role is to be a figurehead for the people; she is selected by the noblest sorceress bloodlines and is trained well in diplomacy and state affairs. The rest of the Order is organized into schools of magic, under which individual sorceresses teach their apprentices to become the new generation. These mistresses are often assigned special roles of the state by the council. The schools include Ybanti (seers who study clairvoyance), Sawaka (battle mages who command destructive energies), Zaduru (sorceresses who can summon spirits and bind them), and Ysnanti (masters of illusions and light). Practitioners of Tabuul (dark magic) are immediately hunted down by the Order, and specialized hunters exist to perform this role.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {recdbVxBTES840oDS} {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY}]
Dajmahans are the people of the great rain forests of the northeast, whose homeland has survived the Calamity intact but has always been a cruel and lethal place to inhabit. This forged its people into sturdy survivors and great hunters. Those that leave this land tend to seek their fortune all over the Empire.\n\n*Appearance*\nDajmahans are athletic, dark-skinned, and dark-haired; they adapted well to the endless jungles, brutal heat, and humidity of their lands.\n\n*History*\nDajmaha, the Land of Endless Rain was once part of the great Dujan Empire that spanned vast lands on the old continent before the War of Sorcerers split it into two landmasses. The ancient civilization of Zenrak rose from the ruins only to reign in terror and blood until a secretive order of mystics overthrew it several centuries afterward. Following the fall of Zenrak after the War of Sorcerers, most Dajmahans sunk back to live in the traditional tribal ways of their forefathers in the deep jungles of their realm. Great kings emerged and ruled over parts of Dajmaha but never managed to do so for any extended length of time. When the Calamity struck, Dajmaha was miraculously spared, yet magical anomalies and mutants did enter its boundaries afterward.\n\nIn the following centuries, a group of female sorcerers called the Order of Kajubra Sha emerged - no doubt having kept the legacy of the original mystics throughout the long millennia - and began aiding the secluded tribes. Eventually, their followers built three cities on the coastline and they have ruled the land from those settlements since. Tribes close to them were assimilated into these realms, but those in the deep jungles continue to live quite oblivious to the regime of sorceresses. The Empire has made several attempts to colonize Dajmaha in the past but it has only managed to hold onto it between 549 to 650 post-Calamity. Officially, the country is not worth the bother but even though the jungles would indeed make such efforts difficult, the vast untapped resources of Dajmaha are clearly something the Twelve crave.\n\n*Culture*\nDajmahan culture has two very distinct sides. The tribal cultures of the deep jungles are isolationist, often savage communities who live as hunter-gatherers just like their ancestors have for many millennia. Led by chieftains and shamans, tribesmen spend their lives without much outside contact in the green hell of Dajmaha. On the other hand, city dwellers live in stone houses and great ziggurats, watched over and protected by the sorceresses of Kajubra Sha. These powerful magic users can only be women, and their royalty always sits on the throne of the three cities as a Queen. Magically active girls are taken to be taught by the Order, while boys are trained to give up such powers. The laws governing magical and mundane life are strict in the city-states but they live in prosperity and security, especially compared to anyone else on the peninsula.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW}]
Shalimi (the Way of the Sha in Dajmahan) is a religion and philosophy native to Dajmaha, a kind of evolution of the tribal spirit faith after it had come into contact with extensive sorcerous research. It is the religion of the city-dwelling Dajmahans, yet it is one without deities, so it is often difficult to grasp for other cultures. Shalimi has no priests but the Order of Kajubra Sha is very conscious of propagating and overseeing the practice of the religion.\n\nTo understand Shalimi, one has to grasp what Sha is. According to Dajmahan spirit shamans and sorcerers, there is an energy or essence that makes up everything in the universe and facilitates life - it appears as matter and forms every kind of energy. It holds all of reality together and is in the essence of all things, responsible for everything that is wholesome. They call it Sha, and the laws that govern it and thus govern the world are called Shalimi and there is nothing above it - no gods, spirits, demons, and certainly no mortals. To live according to Shalimi is desirable, for then the soul remains at peace with the universe and may fulfill its destiny or purpose. To defy Shalimi means defying one's own self and only leads to corruption and imbalance. This philosophy then can be applied to all areas and aspects of life but also to magic and adherents of Shalimi often try to interpret situations through the lens of the workings of Sha. They seek to live a full and balanced life and attain purpose and fulfillment. Everything around them should adhere to Shalimi: family, nature, work, even thoughts. The dead are thought to give up their souls, which reenter Sha only if they lived according to Shalimi - otherwise, spirits remain in penance in this plane of existence and cause untold harm.\n\nNaturally, understanding all this in depth is not something most common folk can manage and so the sorceresses of the Order of Kajubra Sha and the other propagators of Shalimi have boiled the teachings down to more easy-to-comprehend rules and laws. This helps many live a life close to Shalimi's requirements and responsibilities, though citizens have been known to get things wrong quite often. Additionally, the more savage tribes in the endless jungles of Dajmaha have never adopted this belief system and they still worship spirits of nature and of the dead, ruled over by shamans and soothsayers.\n\nEnergies and deeds that corrupt the natural order are called Tabuul, a name Shalimi adopted from the word describing evil magic. Since the rise of the Kajubra Sha sorceresses, necromancers and practitioners of the dark arts have hidden themselves and are hunted down without mercy. Despite this, some of the Order has been known to fall to Tabuul through exposure to impure and corrupted teachings. \n\n[tags {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY}]
The Twin Gods are Amon, God of the Sun, and Inubis, God of the Night; they form the official religion of Tark. The two deities are twin siblings according to legend, having gained consciousness and powers when the forces of creation placed the sun and the moons into the sky. They have forever been at odds with each other, which stems from Inubis' jealousy for Amon's firstborn status and command over light. However, in the original, balanced dualistic religion of Tark, the Twins were both greatly revered and were equally needed: Amon provided the light for the day's work and the crops' growth but Inubis brought shade and rest. The two Gods had priesthoods that were on very good terms with each other and performed rituals and conducted holy festivals in cooperation. This changed radically due to the influence of the Imperial oppressors in the Fourth Age.\n\nLately, the worship of Amon has been relegated to secondary status and only folks outside cities pray to him. His priests have been harassed or even terminated, and their duties are fell upon the wandering monks called dervishes, as well as some hidden circles of mages like the Jel'Kerai. That clandestine order of sorcerers indeed propagates Amon's worship and teachings though compared to their other agendas it might look like an afterthought serving to please their oasis-dwelling power base. At their peak, Amon priests could bring light and heat even to the coldest and darkest of places, as well as command destructive sun-strikes at their opponents.\n\nThe worship of Inubis, on the other hand, has become vastly over-emphasized by the current Tarkian ruling classes and his priests are among the closest advisors and supporters of their regime. Handjari are thus dressed in black and often wear the Night Prince's silver crescent as a symbol. The Imperial cult of the Triumvirate has had a great and detrimental influence on Tarkian religion, which has turned Inubis into a dark, sinister figure much like Bal Ur Kaal, one who schemes in the darkness and rewards opportunistic followers. The priests are rumored to be looking into arcane magic as well, which would clearly shift them more towards the dark arts of the Demon Prince. Inubis is thus often called the 'fourth member of the Triumvirate' and is sometimes even acknowledged by Imperials.\n\n[tags {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9}]
The Handjari is a caste of Tarkians who have accepted cooperation with the Imperial oppressors who subjugated their country - some of them even welcome the current social and political structure. Under the watchful eye of the governor, Trade Princes rule the land, held in power by their Handjari armies, protected by their god Inubis, and made rich by their merchant monopolies.\n\n*History*\nTark has always been a land that found itself at odds with Imperials. Before the Calamity, the country was eventually assimilated into the Empire and rebelled just before the arcane cataclysm struck the continent. Even in those final days of the Third Age, there were Tarkians who supported or even welcomed Imperial occupation. Following the Calamity, the people of Tark resettled their deserts but they could only enjoy their freedom for a few centuries because the Empire returned and conquered them again. This time, more people flocked to the opportunities presented by the occupation and the Imperials welcomed collaborators. Chief amongst these were the powerful merchant families who had been seeking political power over the old Tarkian nobility for centuries. They and the Imperials were ideal allies and that alliance laid the foundations of the Handjari.\n\nThus, from the early days of the Imperial occupation, the Trade Princes of Tark were given power over the cities, becoming governors who had to supply the Empire in return for their cooperation. Armies and elite city guard were raised to keep the peace and root out troublemakers, rebels, agitators, escaped slaves, and agents of the Jel'Kerai - anyone who opposes the current regime. The Handjari then ousted the priests of Amon who turned against the Imperials and so the single God that was legal to worship became Inubis, the Night Prince, God of Darkness, the Moons, and the Night. Since that time, the Handjari have been instrumental in quelling the rebellions of Tark throughout the following centuries. Thus the opposition went into hiding just like the Jel'Kerai and only the remotest desert oases openly defy the Empire.\n\n*Structure and Activity*\nThe Imperial Governor rules over the present-day province of Tark. Under him are the rulers of the several large cities (Buhresh, Turhen, Radan, and Dylathleen), all Trade Princes belonging to powerful merchant dynasties with their own trade organizations, agents, and armies, all under the banners of the Handjari. They have to keep the peace in cities and roads and protect caravans so that the goods the Imperials want get to their destinations unhindered. For that reason, most Princes work with chief agents and retainers of many ranks and types and also compete against the other merchant dynasties - though this can never harm Handjari agendas. Handjari soldiers march when commanded by Imperials and often accompany legions in their wars against the Green Continent or even Dragmolac.\n\nThe priesthood of the God Inubis supports the Handjari in all their endeavors and all members of the caste pray to the Night Prince for strength, secrecy, and shade - a very Tarkian thing to do. High priests are known to be close advisors of Trade Princes; indeed, their words and patronage can remove dynasties from the rule and replace them with others. Only the governor's commands can do the same, which makes them implacable in Tark.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3}]
Tark is one of the desert realms of northern Xeryn, the homeland of the Tarkian people and a province of the Empire. Its perilous history has forged its people into resourceful survivors but many of them feel that their country is occupied or even enslaved by Imperials. Thus Tarkian society is divided, curiously mirroring their dualistic religion.\n\n*History*\nTark is one of the realms that was born out of the fall of ancient Alghazar at the end of the War of Sorcerers when the single old continent broke into two, forming Xeryn and Raokan. Being tribes of desert nomads, Tarkians served the pharaohs of Alghazar until that old cataclysm rent them apart and so they settled the deserts on the northern end of the new continent as well as the great Atuk Mountains and formed their own oasis-dwelling societies. Back then Tark was much more habitable even if arid, and the people there soon thrived and raised cities where their wealthy merchants lived.\n\nTowards the end of the Third Age, the decadent Empire occupied and enslaved the Tarkian people when they refused to bow before the Immortal Emperor and bend their economy to serve Imperial interests. Rebellions followed and just when Tark became independent again, the Calamity struck. Tarkians foresaw it, however, and a large part of their population ascended to the Atuk Mountains where they survived the arcane cataclysm. From the third century after the Calamity, the Tarkians began descending from the mountain valleys and resettled the now great desert plains, then rebuilt their shattered cities.\n\nThe end of the fifth century after the Calamity saw the arrival of the New Empire to the north and Tark was attacked by the legions without delay to reacquire it. The Tarkians lost their homeland despite fighting fiercely and became subjugated again. The caste of the Handjari was established to be the Imperial power base, with Trade Princes ruling the realm under a governor appointed from the Twelve. P.c. 551 saw the first great revolt, which was quelled by the occupation force and the Handjari, further splintering Tarkian society. Rebellions continued against Imperial rule, with two less successful ones in the sixth and seventh centuries being the most prominent among many small-scale skirmishes. The only time when the realm enjoyed independence was the 100 years following the Orc War, during which the Tarkians rebelled and crushed the occupying legions and the Handjari armies of the Trade Princes with the help of the Orcs. Unfortunately, they again became a province when the Imperials returned in p.c. 882. This was followed by another insurgency resulting in the burning of the whole Tarkian navy at Turhen - but not in freedom. Since then Handjari rule was backed up by one of the cruelest members of the Twelve, and very few challenges were made by the rebels of the province.\n\n*Economy*\nTark is an economic powerhouse by Fourth Age standards. They may have lost fertile but arid plains during the Calamity, but many oases survived, and the Atuk Mountains were spared the cataclysm. Additionally, due to its rebellious nature, the province was never completely stripped by pre-Calamity Imperials. Thus, Tark is rich in resources native to deserts, oases, and mountains. Some goods, like coffee beans, certain dyes, spices, metals, rare types of wood, and fruit are abundant, and the long coastline is rich in the bounties of the ocean unlike other waters around the continent. The Tarkian merchant fleet is without equal on the continent and can even reach the sea between the two landmasses or the Green Continent itself - though commerce with the latter is usually conducted on the quiet. This allows Tarkians to import rare goods from faraway lands and take them down the coast to other provinces.\n\n*Society*\nTarkian society is divided thanks to its perilous history. City-dwellers mostly belong to the Handjari, a caste that serves and sometimes welcomes Imperial rule. They wear the traditional black garbs of the Trade Princes who rule them and control most of the trade in the realm. Great armies of Handjari soldiers can march at the command of the Imperial overlords. The Empire allows competition between Princes as they have learned it enhances trade, but they step in whenever conflicts go too far. The great cities of Buhresh, Radan, Turhen, and Dylathleen all control trade routes as well important goods and are essential centers of trade.\n\nPeople of the countryside are not considered Handjari and most of them detest Imperial rule. Revolts against the occupiers almost always form in oases where the tradition-loving desert nomads scheme with the secretive Jel'Kerai mages who are supposedly organizing anti-Imperial activities and guerilla warfare from their hidden towers in the Atuk Mountains. There is also a great number of people - both in cities and outside of them - who do not take sides in the conflict and just want to get by.\n\n*Religion*\nTarkians have a dualistic religion that harkens back to the old realm of Alghazar. The Twin Gods Amon and Inubis have been revered by them since the early days of Tark (and maybe even before). Amon is a sun god, while Inubis represents the moons and the night. During the Fourth Age, religious practices became as divided as Tarkian society itself, and while Handjari now only tend to worship Inubis, country folk turn more to Amon to wipe out the overbearing darkness. The Night Prince Inubis is so influential that he is sometimes referred to as the 'fourth member of the Triumvirate', referring to the strong ties between the two religions and their priests. Amon's priests are mostly desert-dwelling dervishes - warrior monks who wander and fight alongside the Jel'Kerai.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}]
Imperials are humans whose ancestors inhabited the continent of Xeryn and founded the greatest Empire in the known world. The Calamity that was brought about by the Elder Gods destroyed most of their realm but these hardy folk rose again and learned to adapt to a world that no longer welcomed them. Thus, Imperials are much the same as before, even if more bitter and pragmatic, perhaps.\n\n*Appearance*\nImperials are quite varied in looks, although some features are often pointed out as 'Imperial'. Typically, Daromarian traits are considered superior - including tall stature, fair hair, and grey or blue eyes; Aetruan traits are much more common, however, including dark hair and eyes, as well as sallow skin.\n\n*History*\nMen of the Empire trace their origins to Daromar, an ancient civilization that was founded in the Second Age by one of the tribes of the First Man of myth. Daromar was a warrior culture, which aided it immensely in surviving the turbulent Second Age but ultimately led to its demise when the Silent King's Undead decimated the kingdom. A warlord named Zevaros led the exiles of the dying land south and east, eventually finding the secluded land of Aetruas beyond the Great Barrier Mountains where a peaceful people lived at the feet of Mount Xyn. Imperials like to think that the exiles colonized Aetruas, but in actual fact, the much more populous Aetruans assimilated the Daromarians. Yet Daromarian culture and belief systems were strong enough to influence the Aetruans, especially the ruling classes.\n\nThe Empire was formed under Zevaros who was elected as first Emperor Quilan Xevaris Maximus and married the princess of the Aetruan chieftain. Their line produced Emperors for long years to come, laying the foundations for a realm that came close to world domination in the millennia to follow. The Golden Age came to an end with the Calamity, in which most of the Empire was utterly destroyed. It was soon rebuilt by the Twelve, Undead lords of immense power, and the New Empire rose from the ashes. Although a dark caricature of its former character, the realm managed to survive another millennium following the cataclysm and now rules the continent of Xeryn almost without contest.\n\n*Culture*\nImperials are industrious, pragmatic, subtle, and often very religious. The idea of progress is important to the Imperial mindset, and wherever they appear, these people try to improve conditions and spread the light of the Empire. This usually involves trade and commerce, which is very close to the Imperial spirit. Since the Calamity, which is interpreted by most as the betrayal of the Elder Gods, Imperials worship the Triumvirate, a trio of new Gods that demonstrate their bitterness well: Sergorod, God of Anger; Ahskul, God of Death; and Bal Ur Kaal, God of Lies. A veritable army of saints and patrons is also revered, and worship often involves small sacrifices in exchange for blessings.\n\nImperials also possess a very distinct material culture that changed little throughout the millennia, showing how they are also adherents of traditions. Their cultural influence on other societies has been extremely strong and important during history.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
Praecepticis is the Patron Saint of Study and Teaching since the very early days of the Empire, whose worship has survived into the Fourth Age. According to legend, he was a mage and scholar who lived and worked in the days of the first Emperor, Quilan Xevaris Maximus. It appears that he was a close ally and advisor of Xevaris and in turn, he was tasked with founding many of the scholarly institutions of the Empire, among them the Praecepticus Library in the capital, after which all other great libraries were modeled. He was also key in developing scientific and scholarly methodologies and was said to be a man of unparalleled knowledge in many fields. Praecepticis was said to have died after living almost 500 years - the longevity clearly achieved by sorcery - and left behind a legacy that elevated him to be a saint of the Empire. Although he has no priests, a few monks are ordained to be the saint's servants, but they receive no powers from Praecepticis (although many of them are mages) and their roles are ceremonial at universities, mage orders, libraries, and schools. The saint's name is a cognomen, a personal name given by others, and it is a bastardization of the Imperial word for 'understand', his real name lost to history.\n\n[tags {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
Nox is the Patron of the Night and everything nocturnal in the Imperial cult. She is said to be as old as the Empire itself and her worship was small in scale but constant throughout the millennia. Called the 'Sable Woman' or 'She of Dusk', she is called upon by anyone who has to dare darkness, as well as those who primarily work by night: entertainers, prostitutes, watchmen - and of course, criminals of all kind.\n\nThe origins of Nox are as mysterious as everything else about her. One legend talks of her being the daughter of one of the old moon Goddesses who was excommunicated by the Elder Gods and hid among mortals only to become more powerful after the Calamity, during which her duplicitous parents vanished. Some sages say she is the wife of the First Man to walk the world but after his demise, she remained and stalks the night, perhaps because she had a hand in her husband's death. Others claim that Nox was a mortal woman who was taught magic by Elves, still others say that she is a Demon, one that hunts during the pitch black of moonless nights. The Triumvirate recognizes her as a Saint (though nobody calls her that) and priests often identify her as Bal Ur Kaal's wife, sister, or daughter.\n\nAlthough Nox has no priests officially, there are rumors of women who can call upon the darkness of the night who adhere to her worship. They are called witches and hags but still many seek their blessings and charms. Dark Elves - especially women well-versed in shadow magic - also follow an aspect of Nox called the 'Shadow Woman'. The Patron of the Night often takes blood or other unsavory things as a sacrifice, but that may only be because people tend to do terrible things more easily under the cover of darkness.\n\n[tags {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
Vordenius, also called Marcus Vorden (in his original Daromarian language) or 'Old Hand Marcus', is the Patron of Soldiers in the Imperial cult, canonized as a saint many centuries after his life in the Second Age. According to dogma, Vorden was the greatest soldier to ever live, serving under the last king of Daromar before, during, and after the fall of that ancient kingdom. He was said to have sacrificed everything to protect the exiles of that realm, eventually even his own life. These days many sages claim that he was not a real or single person but rather a personification of the Daromarian military man who made it possible for the many hundreds of thousands of fleeing civilians to reach the land of Aetruas and by extension, found the Empire. Dishonorable fighters are believed to be unworthy of Old Hand Marcus' blessings.\n\nVordenius has never had priests or monks, although all Imperial soldiers and many freelance warriors consider themselves his initiates. Moreover, career military in the Empire's armies are initiated officially into Old Hand Marcus' worship by default and sacrifice to him regularly: food and weapons, especially that of one's defeated enemies. The only other acts of worship are short prayers to Vorden for strength and protection before a battle and small metal tokens that draw the saint's benevolent attention. Interestingly, even though followers of Sergorod have tried to spin Vordenius' story in a way to paint him as the Raging One's disciple, this has not taken root and the followers of Marcus Vorden keep objecting to that version.\n\n[tags {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
Acherus is the largest and oldest of the three main obsidian quarres of the region around Sergorod's Blade. It was established hundreds of years ago and in the past centuries, slave labor has moved a veritable mountain to get the the precious black glass. For that reason, obsidian is fairly depleted here, but rock and other ores are mined still, albeit with a much smaller workforce. The Empire has used Acherus as a prison colony for a long while now, making criminals to dig for stone that is used for building material in the surrounding region.\n\nAcherus - named after a mythical region of the Underworld - is an open air quarry, with terraces and scaffolding all along its gigantic pit. A set of dark stone buildings line the western edge and the mountain's slopes above, with a cluster of towers forming the central administrative buildings. House Darius has owned Acherus for so long that nobody recalls if anyone had run the place before them. Unfortunately for the Trading House, the productivity of the quarry has not been very desirable of late.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]\n[node {nod6yfb3LdUhU69c603t}]
The Ioscian Quarry is one of the three great obsidian quarries of the region - the last to be established but already almost completely depleted. The name comes from one of the old Imperial provinces from before the Calamity, but why it was named so is anyone's guess. House Venari used to own the quarry but sold it after the lack of obsidian in the location became clear. The loss was especially painful to the Trading House as they put a lot of effort into getting licenses to dig, to begin with because the Senate found the establishment of an operation so close to Scortaur home turf too risky. When the Venari sold the Ioscian Quarry, they thought a good deal was struck and the buyer, House Oquo, would suffer a great loss.\n\nInstead of leaving, the Oquo industrialists who bought the mining rights found another way to utilize the quarry: parties of slaves and daring free men venture out to the Plains of Bone and harvest ivory and bone, bringing it back to the Ioscian where they are packed up and sent east as trade goods. This operation has become very profitable for the Oquo and the Ioscian Quarry has seen a renaissance of activity of late. The quarry is of the open-air variety, with terraces and scaffolding on the northern side of its gigantic pit, though locals also use the abandoned mining tunnels as dwellings.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]\n[node {nodHQiK3LdUaX69c603E}]
Mercatus Games are a gladiatorial event that is organized every year on the Idis of Caldarius (the 15th day of the third month) to ask for the blessing of Mercatus, Saint of Commerce on the following year's trade. The feasting, sales, entertainment, and gladiatorial games last six days (1 Imperial week), and Mercatus monks compensate any trader who gives discounts and in the largest cities, and they consecrate Imperial arenas in the Saint's name.\n\nMercatus Games are the largest public gladiatorial event and they are very important in the Imperial gladiator tradition. Though /lanistas/ take their fighters to all pits and arenas from small towns to great cities, the most prominent games are organized in a handful of grand cities: the capital city down south, Tor'Zag's Shelter in the middle regions, and Toht in the north. From all of these, the games in the Shelter have the reputation of most spectacular. Senators, prominent nobles, sorcerers, and merchant lords all enter their own fighters in the lists and take part in organizing amazing spectacles in the arena each year. These very often include historical reenactments as well as elaborate fighting conditions.\n\nThose that win games earn eternal fame and often fortune. Slave gladiators are liberated in victory and their /lanistas/ receive great opportunities from wealthy and powerful patrons. For these reasons, competition is usually fierce. As expected, a great deal of betting goes on during these events, and even though the monks of Mercatus oversee these activities, criminals tend to find ways to exploit rules and citizens.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {recLF3Dyip1e2Q7RU}]
Everdark is not a single region but a collective name for the underground realms below the continent of Xeryn. The vast system of natural caverns was always there, but during the long millennia of the Second and Third Ages, many races - Dwarves, Dark Elves, Yrg, and other strange beings - dug tunnels and corridors so fervently that today, Everdark is a great realm with its own cities, countries, politics, wars, and wonders. As for Xeryn, the continent's western reaches are especially rich in large caves, and after the fall of the Dwarves following the Calamity, many Dark Elves moved in to live there undisturbed and even founded settlements on the surface.\n\nEverdark is a shadowy realm - it is, in fact, pitch black apart from the stretches of caverns lit by fluorescent mushrooms, twinkling crystals (much like the /caleri/ of the surface), luminous bugs creatures, or magical torches placed by Dark Elves. Cities and other settlements are usually at least somewhat illuminated by its inhabitants even though most dwellers of the Everdark can see well in the cold blackness of the place. Most sections of Everdark are chilly places, though streams and volcanic phenomena tend to produce heat fairly reliably. Water is common enough that Dark Elves have become skilled boatmen and traverse the great underground rivers as well as the sunless realm of Darkwater below old Ankot Kala.\n\nAlthough Dark Elves rule supreme, many other races and realms encroach upon their caverns and tunnels. Yrgs are well-known for dwelling underground, but few realize how widespread these large insects are below the continent, and ever since the appearance of their Yskorri masters, they have been rumored to wage wars on the cruel Moreldin of Everdark. Conversely, Yrgs are common in Dark Elven yokes, be they food sources, beasts of burden, or bred for war. There are whispers of the dread Black Dwarves, though nobody has seen a city or even a shrine of the accursed creatures to prove that they have resurfaced. Wraiths are also very common, drawn by nature to dark places.\n\nSome Dark Elven city-states and principalities are known to the Imperials as well, for either they cherish a good relationship with the Empire or they have stepped onto the pages of the surface world's history. Such places, like Shakuzar, are often open to other races, at least partially. Thanks to the unique properties of the underground realm, many resources and goods are produced there that can not be found on the surface, or at least not in such abundance. Certain mushrooms, metals, and minerals are chief among the exports, and rich trade opportunities exist for those willing to risk the treacherous depths of Everdark.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}]
Vaelanesthil is a great Elven ruin in the region of hills on the southern edge of the Bronze Desert. Before the Calamity, the place was a city-state of Elves that was loosely associated with the realm of Dor Anthelas. They were famous for creating a magnificent garden in the otherwise arid regions of the northwest, although these Eldin were not very keen on contacting and educating humans - though they were not hostile either. They traded with the Imperials and the Bandul locals but remained diplomatically detached from them.\n\nThe Calamity devastated the tranquil hills and great forests south of the city, turning them into cragged, arid rock desert and the Death Forest, respectively. Vaelanesthil's Elves did not survive the magical cataclysm and no account of their fate exists. Today, the city's ruins are half-buried under rocks and sand at the center of maze-like ravines and valleys that make them very difficult to approach. The few travelers who dared enter speak of cracked marble towers and domes, heralds of a faded beauty, but not much else. No gardens or riches remain, except perhaps deep below the ruins, although nobody has reported yet of daring the darkness and returning. There is talk of strange noises, voices, eerie lights, and even odd scents during nights that makes people avoid Vaelanesthil altogether, although, in truth, most ruins on the continent have such phenomena attributed to them.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i}]
Darkmoor is a region of swamps, humid forests, and many lakes between the Karginath Sea and the great Barrier Mountains. It was largely uninhabited and was settled by the wandering and defeated Orc tribes after the Orc War. It has been since known by Imperials as a lawless place that breeds plagues, raiders, pirates, and horrible creatures.\n\n*Description*\nDarkmoor is a great land of almost continuous swamps. The air here is humid, although not necessarily hot at all times. Dark clouds often gather in the skies above the region and rains are very common. The air and the ground are equally damp, and large sections of the terrain are impassable due to being deadly marshes where one can sink and drown with one misstep. Locals know the safe paths but those tend to shift with time, and the whole of Darkmoor seems to be adverse to mortals disturbing its grim tranquility. Hordes of often venomous insects keep harassing travelers here and the swamps are home to creatures too terrifying to describe. The whole region is dark in color, be it the earth, the gnarly trees, or the ferns and other fauna with their dusky leaves. There is an Orc saying for something that is impossible to count or overcome - 'as many rivers are in Darkmoor', which gives a fair idea of the waterways of the place.\n\n*History*\nDarkmoor came to be when the Calamity flooded the realms northeast of the Hearthlands. The ground sunk beneath the ocean's waves that rushed in and created an inner sea called Karginath. The southern flooded region eventually withdrew, however, and left behind a muddy, wet, swampy land that is today Darkmoor. Nothing survived the floods there - whole cities were buried under mud and silt and crushing waves; the ruins of those Imperial settlements can still be found sometimes in the marshes. The following centuries, however, again changed Darkmoor, and although much of the continent became arid and incapable of sustaining fauna, plants thrived in the new swamps, even though they became sickly and mutated. In a relatively short time (about 500 years) new fauna evolved and overgrown thickets of thousands of plants now cover Darkmoor. Many of them are poisonous but some are edible and can sustain the small local population.\n\nA lot changed when the Orc tribes moved into Darkmoor during and after the Orc War (p.c. 778-787). At first, the harsh land served as a staging ground for their war effort in the second half of the conflict when their armies were moving into and beyond the Province. Following their defeat, the surviving Orcs settled into the swamps and most of their kind have lived there ever since. It has become their homeland and a proving ground for the whole race - it produces tough, cruel, and resourceful warriors and marauders who raid the foreign Imperial areas or sail the seas in rickety barges and attack ships in order to gain loot that - along with the dangerous bounty of the marshes - sustains their tribal society. Even though hundreds of Orc tribes dwell in Darkmoor, they build no cities, and constant strife and blood feuds make any kind of cooperation between them impossible. Imperials have never really tried to enter the swamplands and try to root the Orcs out, so they were content to build a line of forts that are supposed to prevent the marauders from entering - with varying degrees of success.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regRVoP3Ldwwb84d800B}]
Kromagonis is the Black Dragonlord, the oldest and mightiest of the living demigods known as the Dragonlords. He is the founder and ruler of the Black Dragon Brood along with its armies and its lands called Dragmolac.\n\nKromagonis left his seven brethren when they arrived at Xeryn following the Calamity and took his brood to Arkadia Bay in the west, where he performed a ritual similar to the one that the other Dragonlords did to reinvigorate the land and form the Dragonlands. The Black lord did this alone, and the realm he created thusly was named Dragmolac. The nest of Kromagonis was settled at the southernmost peaks of the Mountains of Fire and the fortress city of Dargrath was built around it in the following century. Kromagonis and his country were drawn into a constant war against the Empire but during the long and hard centuries that followed, he and his have always come out as victors against the invaders. Dragmolac is a prospering but militaristic place as a result, a country constantly vigilant, expecting an attack at any moment, fortified more than any other realm on the continent.\n\nKromagonis has been described as distant, cold, and strict, but his power can not be disputed: he has achieved alone what six of his brethren struggled to and did it under much worse circumstances. His people almost worship him and look upon his Dragons for might and protection. His Draconic Flame is manifested as a green fire that is hotter and deadlier than any other flame, his roar strikes fear into the heart of even the most stalwart warriors, and these powers are granted to brood and proxies alike. Kromagonis rarely grants an audience to anyone except his most trusted Dragons or non-Dragon followers. His country is not run by the Black lord's Dragon children but by mortals who oversee almost everything - the Champion of Dragmolac who leads soldiers by example and is chosen by trials of combat; and the Prince of the land who leads its armies and defenses at times of war, as well as its economy and political life during peace. The latter is chosen by Kromagonis himself based on their pure blood and connection to the Flame if rumors are to be believed.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x} {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY}]
Dragon magic originates from the Flame that burns in the soul of each and every Dragon and Draconic creature, including Dragonlords and some Dragonkin. The power of the Flame is called upon and manifested by the caster in the desired form, though destructive forms are the most common.\n\nDragons, by their nature, possess command of the Flame; when humans or Dragonkin are chosen by the Flame, they start to manifest powers at random, often burning themselves and others. Dragonmages are known to seek out such cases and offer training. Those who choose to be taught can end up becoming novices for the mages and eventually become powerful spellcasters themselves. Others shun this opportunity and try to live with an unbridled Flame, which is as likely to go out in time and become dormant as it is to kill them.\n\nDragon magic is by its nature destructive. The Flame is easiest to manifest as itself, that is, a deadly hot and shining fire, which displays the chromatic characteristics of the source (for example, Blue Dragons manifest Flame as lighting strikes). However, with extensive learning, the Flame can be called upon for other reasons and it is able to be formed into almost any kind of spell. Typically Draconic formulas are more common, however, including magical protection, flight, physical empowerment, fear-inducing roars, and augmented senses. Dragon magic is also used to create and charge Dragonstones - reusable magical spells embedded into precious stones. These then can be used by anyone who knows the casting word.\n\nAnother quality of the Flame is that it can be seethed and drawn upon to become more devastating and produce more powerful spells. The consequences can be harmful - or even lethal - to practitioners, so it is mostly used in such a manner as a last resort or by reckless casters. For this reason, Dragonmages spend a lot of their training by strengthening their discipline.\n\n[tags {recdbVxBTES840oDS} {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx}]
The Sapphire Pass is a wide, steep gap at the northern-most tip of the Dragonlands between impassable mountains and cliffs. It is heavily fortified and includes the Looming Wall, the Amethyst Gate, the Steep Hills, and - to some extent - even the crags called the Smuggler's Cloak.\n\nThe Dragonlords' servants and kin were working on closing that entrance with defenses and fortifications as far back as the Dragon War. The Looming Wall - the longest line of fortifications on the continent - was built from dark blue stone to close the gap. It is equal in stature and structure to the wall at the Crimson Pass down south, albeit it was never completely finished and has large holes in it the farther west one travels along with it. The gatehouse itself, called the Amethyst Gate, is a huge fortress complex looking over the Steep Hills which is the name of the cruelly rising valley outside the walls. The eastern part of the fortifications ends in Fort Kargath high up on the mountain's side. The western end of the wall is completely ruined and is missing mile-wide sections where many unsavory folks keep sneaking into the Dragonlands despite the vigilant patrols. The Amethyst Guard is responsible for the defense of the Looming Wall and the Pass, their Drakes constantly flying over the region while their hunter-killer Krawags try to sniff out trespassers.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i} {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}]
Doranmathar is the Blue Dragonlord, one of the living demigods and founders of the Dragonlands, the originator and absolute ruler of the Blue Dragon Brood along with its armies and lands.\n\nHaving arrived at the continent of Xeryn following the Calamity, Doranmathar chose to stay with his six brethren and cast a spell on a region in the middle of the continent to reinvigorate it with resources and fertility. He settled Tempest Peak, the highest mountaintop of the newly formed Dragonspine. During the wars that followed and cemented the Dragonlands as one of the greatest powers of the continent, Doranmathar and his brood remained stalwart protectors and devastating fighters. The Dragonlord's kind has been guarding and patrolling the northern borders of the country along the blue-tinged fortifications that form its northernmost limit.\n\nDoranmathar has always been known as a voice of reason and wisdom among his kin, though his anger can be devastating when unleashed - just like the great storms he draws and often embodies. His Draconic Flame is manifested as lighting strikes, his roar is like thunder, and these powers are granted to his brood and proxies alike. Doranmathar considers himself the guardian of the Dragonlands and - to some extent - all living beings with a soul, though he and his Dragons rarely get involved in anything outside his own country. That is, if one believes that organizations like the Scythichnis Covenant do not serve his interests with their secretive agendas. Like most other Dragonlords, Doranmathar does not like to show himself and rules through his senior Dragon children as well as his Voice, a mage of great power who sits on the council in the realm's capital.\n\n[tags {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x} {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9}]
The mighty fortress city of Tempest Peak occupies the tallest, snow-covered mountain peak of the Dragonspine mountains. Built of the same dark blue stone as the Looming Wall and Fort Kargath, this great stronghold houses the nest of the Blue Dragonlord, along with most of his brood and airborne armies. Blue Drakes constantly circle the tall and slender towers of the upper fort, while the skies are always roiling above Tempest Peak, with storms drawn day after day to the Dragonlord Doranmathar himself. Sometimes these storms travel far and wide, and people believe that the Dragonlord can control where they strike. Lightning flashes and thunder murmurs constantly around the fortress city, but its inhabitants - believed to be secretive mages and magically enhanced warriors - care little.\n\nThe fortress city is only accessible via flying or traversing an elaborate set of halls, elevators, and tunnels from the foot of the mountains, but these are largely abandoned because the servants of the Dragonlords have easy access to flight and few other souls are allowed access to Tempest Peak. Doranmathar is said to be nesting just below the central great tower in a large, crackling hall carved into the mountain's top, but those who have had the honor of seeing him speak of this to nobody.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i}]
A strange and secretive merchant guild born of the alliance between the Blue and Opal Dragonlords, the Scythichnis Covenant is known to be more interested in acquiring magical objects and knowledge than in trading goods and resources. Still, it is one of the wealthiest trade guilds in the Dragonlands and the continent as a whole.\n\n*History*\nSome historical sources claim that the alliance that eventually spawned the Scythichnis Covenant was formed after the Dragon War (around p.c. 480), while others claim it has come into existence much sooner - since the two Dragonlords have always worked closely together - and the trade guild was only a next step in their cooperation. Whatever the case, the Covenant was present exclusively in the Dragonlands for centuries and its agents emerged wherever arcane secrets, ancient knowledge, and scientific discoveries were found. The Scythichnis gathered what they could while continued trading and gained fabulous prosperity. They aided the construction of the Amethyst Gate in the early 500s and it is said that the magical glyphs used to erect the fortifications are without equal in the realms.\n\nLater on, the Covenant was among the first to leave the confines of the Dragonlands thanks to the /Dracis Pax/ following the wars and quietly spread through the continent, working out trade deals, mediating between merchants, and establishing bases of operation. Their unique offerings brought wealth and connections that they used to delve into pre-Calamity secrets and magical research. In the meantime, they were a stoic, persistent force that protected Dragonlands citizens and agendas, usually only resorting force when there was no other choice.\n\n*Structure and Activity*\n'Scythichnis' in Draconic is a word-play on the words 'seek' and 'defend', and was said to have been given to the Covenant after their first great meeting of the same name. The organization is led by twelve Grandmasters, six from the Opal Brood, and six from the Blue. Under these powerful agents serve all kinds of lesser commanders, including a whole order of mages and sorceresses. The small army of fighters the Covenant can field is said to be magically imbued warriors but are rarely seen in action, though it is clear that they consider themselves guardians and protectors, something the Blue Dragons believe, too. Special rights and responsibilities are given to 'seekers', agents who are looking into some kind of specific knowledge, secret, or magic. It is difficult to know for outsiders if one of their merchants belongs to either of these secretive casts, but most do not deal with them for anything else but trade.\n\nThe Covenant deals in luxury items and often knowledge, though the typical Draconic goods (wood, metal, grain) form their general stock. Additionally, the bounties from the Glittering Pit - rare precious metal and magnificent jewels - are enough to finance most of their costly operations. Nobody trades in Dragonstones as much and as well as the Scythichnis. They are at odds with most Imperial Trading Houses, although their competition is less aggressive than with the Ratharnak, who are neutral with the Scythichnis at best. And while interestingly, the Kalani-based House Bedvios forms an exception from the Imperial antagonism and is said to be an ally of the Covenant, the Crimson Mages of the southwest fight bitter shadow wars for unearthed arcane secrets whenever they can.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3}]
Var'Dak's Landing is a small but busy permanent encampment hidden on a swampy island off the coast of in southern Maar Gorad. It was set up by the Abolitionists to serve as a base of operations and a place for runaway slaves - at least until they ship them out.\n\n*Description*\nThe Landing is little more than a cluster of hovels and cottages, with bonfires and braziers the light of which can barely penetrate the thick fog that constantly envelops the whole coastline. Liberated slaves and Abolitionist agents mingle in the settlement, warming themselves around the fires against the wet chill that bites to the bone. \n\n*History*\nVar'Dak's Landing was founded several years ago as a gathering places for Abolitionists and escaped slaves, as well as a hub from where the movement can get them to their destination - sometimes even beyond the Empire. The organization watches over the island and keeps its origins a secret as much as possible, though the name Var'Dak implies that the legendary Orc pirate and marauder may be behind its founding, or else they used his name for some reason. Apart from a few of their own agents in the region, very few know of the Landing's existence.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i}]\n[node  {nod8iJC3P6aBzd31f00M}]
Cadmador is a clandestine organization of mysterious goals, though Imperials have been known to consider it a group terrorist, while Dragmolac - its country of origin - calls it a Trading House.\n\n*History*\nCadmador (meaning 'black cauldron' in Draconic) came into being as early as in the fifth century, during the turbulent times when Dragmolac and its Black Brood was either at war with the Empire or a tenuous peace existed for short intervals at a time. Even then, the organization was called a Trading House but was little more than a front for Black Dragon Army spies and saboteurs. The Empire was suspicious right from the start but it took only a few decades for proof to emerge and despite the temptation of goods and wares unavailable elsewhere, Imperials ended up outlawing Cadmador. That left the organization with little purpose, as they could only trade inside Dragmolac and it was not possible to reach any other realms due to the Empire surrounding them. In the next centuries, Cadmador managed to bounce back from its dwindling state when its agents secured trade deals with wandering Kal-rish, Sadirar tribes, some Dark Elven cities, and even the Order of the Crimson Mages. The latter two, though effectively close allies of the Empire, have become exempt from the laws that forbade dealing with Cadmador thanks to lobbying. Also, due to the ability of Drakes to fly great distances and even carry some cargo, Cadmador has some ongoing trade with the Dragonlands. Imperial agencies have kept forgetting about the organization throughout the long centuries but sooner or later they will turn up and stir up trouble for them.\n\n*Structure and Activity*\nLittle is known of the structure and leadership of Cadmador outside the organization. It appears that a single Director leads them, and senior agents follow in the chain of command, mirroring the rigid, militaristic society of Dragmolac. Many speculate, however, that the real power behind Cadmador is the Black Army, and the Director receives orders from generals and commanders, while many agents are in fact saboteurs, assassins, spies, and other military personnel in disguise.\n\nCadmador deals in wood, metals, herbs, dyes, and a lot of other goods that are very hard to come by in the Fourth Age, and because of this, some Imperials often trade with them in secret despite the risk of branded as a traitor. They do not have allies, for even though the cause of Dragonkind is theirs, the Black Brood has always been deliberately isolationist even with their own kin. As for enemies, Imperial Trading Houses and the Church of Sergorod, as well as the legions keep opposing them as much as they can - and this often means violent altercations, not only trade disputes.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3}]
Standing on the outer side of the Crimson Gate are the Dragon Steps, the largest set of stairs in the world, partly built from rock, partly carven out of the mountainside by a century of diligent and backbreaking work. The Dragon Steps connect the artificial plateau in front of the Gate and the broken Jagged Waste below. The stairs are at least a mile wide at the bottom but much narrower near the top. It was built alongside the magnificent blood-colored fortifications above it following the Dragon War, though the stones here do not share that tinge except for the guard towers along the stairs.\n\nWide lanes were also added to the stairs to aid ascending carts. Along the way at set intervals, small forts and watchtowers stand, each with its own small garrison and sorcerous warning fires. The structure is so huge that there are flat stops along the way up for weary climbers and /comitati/ are known to sometimes settle down on them for the night. The Steps are patrolled by the Red Dragonguard constantly, while the skies above it and the surrounding region are watched by Dragonriders of the Red Dragonguard.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj} {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i}] [region {regx6oU3PBt2dd31f02k}]
The Carpenters' Guild is a /collegium/, a criminal syndicate that evolved from several craftsmen's unions, especially woodworkers and potters. Nowadays, the Guild runs all sorts of illegal business in Imperial cities of the middle and northern regions, especially where a strong community of craftsmen and caterers are present.\n\n*History*\nThe Carpenters' Guild has long abandoned its original purpose of a craftsmen's union and turned into a criminal organization way before the Calamity. It came into being from the alliance between several /collegia/ of craftsmen around Lamfarnis and Lirinia after Trading Houses tried to monopolize their respective trades. Chief among these were carpenters and potters, whose professions were practiced with near-religious devotion. The cataclysm destroyed Lirinia but many of its inhabitants fled and survived in Lamfarnis, and so the Carpenters' Guild re-emerged in the Fourth Age, now a hard-boiled crime syndicate that practically runs cities. It took a while for them to come out on top but then nothing stood in the way of expansion towards the northern territories as well as the rest of the Province. Soon, most great cities had a strong Carpenter presence, but their great adversary, the Loaders' Guild has managed to carve out a part of the northern and middle territories for themselves, too.\n\n*Structure and Activity*\nThe Guild is structured in a fairly standard /collegium/ manner. The captains of each city where the local /collegium/ reaches a certain prominence can vote each year and thus elect leaders called Craftsmen from among their ranks. Three of these overlords make decisions for the whole Guild, though they have little say in local Guild business and so autonomies remain fairly intact. Craftsmen are expected to uphold millennia-long Guild traditions - these tend to manifest in a rather elitist criminal code that encourages a sense of honor, respect for traditions, protecting families, and above all, looks down upon lower classes, people without a trade, and non-trained labor. There is a fair amount of infighting and power grabs in larger cities, and the lesser captains with their crews are constantly shifting in status and responsibilities.\n\nThe Carpenters usually put an emphasis on criminal activities that are more natural for their craftsmen origins, such as weapon-selling, fencing, prostitution, and burglary. The greatest Carpenter presence is in Deven, Lirinia, and Avernum in the middle and northern regions. The Guild's ancient motto is 'Construo Imperium', which means 'We build the Empire' in Imperial. This clearly demonstrates the general sense of superiority that Carpenters feel among criminals, even though their lower ranks are no different from that of the ones in the employ of the Loaders' Guild or of any other /collegium/.\n\n[tags {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {receCIfXSlpPPQjCY} {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3}]
The Dragonlords are living demigods with vast and mysterious sorcerous powers as well as physical might; they rule over their Draconic Broods and have come to dwell and propagate their bloodlines on the continent of Xeryn during the fourth century after the Calamity.\n\nAccording to sages and scholars, there used to be nine Dragonlords before they arrived at Xeryn four centuries after the Calamity from a place unknown to everyone but them. Accompanied by their mighty broods of Dragons, Drakes, and other Draconic creatures, eight Dragonlords came to the continent, while the last one - the youngest - was reportedly slain just beforehand. The eldest of them, the Black lord separated from the rest and flew his brood west, eventually settling old Arkadia Bay and founding Dragmolac. The remaining seven Dragonlords cast an enchantment on the region in the middle of the continent and settled it after the magic revitalized the earth - and so the Dragonlands was born.\n\nThe source of the Dragonlords' powers is the Flame, an arcane counterpart of their souls that all Draconic beings possess, albeit with varying potential. These powers can be manifested in different ways, and the lords of the Dragons are the masters of controlling them - their known applications include shapeshifting, devastating arcane spells infused with flames, impenetrable defensive enchantments, inscrutable magical senses, as well as the combination of science and magic to produce Dragonkin, pure sorcerous bloodlines, and whole sub-races of Draconic creatures. Yet it is none of these powers that elevate the Dragonlords into the brink of godhood, but the seemingly innate ability to grant some of these powers to their followers. According to some sages, the key to this is the bloodline manipulation that the lords propagate, while others interpret it as genuinely divine. Dragonlords seldom take part in anything directly and they work through chosen magisters called Voices. Nor do they take part in battles, but it is known to have happened in the early days of their stay on the continent. Historical records not only mention an otherworldly cunning but also describe the lords of Dragons as unstoppable in combat: gigantic Draconic horrors that unleash flame on hundreds and can single-handedly break armies.\n\nThe nine Dragonlords are chromatic, that is, each has its own distinct color and with it, matching attributes to their Flame and bloodline. Their current allegiances and whereabouts are as follows (in order of their age):\n\nKromagonis the Black - The eldest of the lords, thought to be the most powerful. He is the ruler of Dragmolac and his nest is in Dargrath. His Flame is green and burns hotter than the hottest fires.\n\nAzrethor the White - Inexplicably turned sides during the Dragon War and since then is the ally of the Empire along with his White Brood. He dwells on the frozen peak of Ikarnath north of Mount Xyn. His Flame is sorcerous ice; white and unbearably cold.\n\nGhorfimbul the Opal - One of the rulers of the Dragonlands, his nest is in the Glittering Pit. He has become a master of sorcery and of creating Dragonstones. His Flame is pure arcane magic, though it has been known to shift colors.\n\nPedraghor the Golden - Slain during the Dragon War, he then returned as a Dragon Lich under the control of the Twelve. His lair's location is unknown. His Flame is a corrupted fire of darkness and decay.\n\nDoranmathar the Blue - One of the rulers of the Dragonlands, his nest is on the storm-ridden Tempest Peak. His Flame manifests as powerful lightning.\n\nHearkenrath the Bronze - One of the rulers of the Dragonlands, his nest is the fuming mountain-forge of Molegrath. His Flame is a stream of molten fire.\n\nArgador the Green - One of the rulers of the Dragonlands, his nest is the swamp-engulfed ruin of Heldontias called the Noxious Den in this age. His Flame is an acidic stream of hot fume.\n\nFirrocraig the Red - One of the rulers of the Dragonlands, his nest is the smoking volcano called the Great Crag. His Flame is red-hot fire.\n\nUnknown youngest Dragonlord - Believed to have been slain before the rest of them arrived on the continent.\n\n[tags {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY}]
The Dragon War (p.c. 464-467) was one of the great wars of the Fourth Age, an armed conflict between the Empire and the relatively young Dragonlands. By its end, it changed the power-landscape of the continent and cemented the Dragonlords as the most prominent realm on it.\n\nFrom as early as p.c. 400, the Dragonlands started to attract Humans with their stabilized environments. Many people settled in these more habitable lands and were soon recruited into the newly formed realm, forming the bulk of the citizens of the Dragonlands. This migration of valuable manpower was seen by the Empire as the last straw in the already escalating hostilities. In p.c. 464 they gave an ultimatum to the Dragonlords: leave their former lands or be destroyed. Negotiations ended soon and the war broke out.\n\nThe Empire had initial success due to the Dragonlords’ unwillingness or inexperience to coordinate their forces. This was also a time when the Crimson and Amethyst Gates were not yet built and so entry to the Dragonlands was much easier by force. A year into the conflict the Dragons bounced back and won a decisive battle at Lamfarnis in 465. From then on, the Empire was only retreating, until the Dragonlords decided they had pushed the enemy far enough. Disagreements regarding that led to Pedraghor, the Golden lord leading an attack against the First Gate alone in a bid to end the war in a single, decisive strike. It was then that the White Dragonlord Azrethor betrayed his brethren and the ensuing battle led to the death of Pedraghor and the destruction of the Golden Brood. The shock of this was great to the Dragons but the Empire had lost all appetite for war, so an armistice was signed by both parties in 467 - however, tensions remained and Draconic occupation reached as far as Lamfarnis.\n\nAlthough the war was over, matters were not resolved for years to come, during the /Dracis Revansis/ (p.c. 474-475), when the remaining and united five Dragonlords attacked the Empire as it came embroiled in a savage conflict with the Black Dragonlord's new realm. The Province was devastated and although Pedraghor returned briefly as a Dragon-Lich on the Imperial side (although this is widely contested), this only managed to save the Empire from total annihilation as Azrethor chose to hold his brood back. The Empire capitulated in 475 and the /Dracis Pax/ was signed (except by Kromagonis) between the powers, leading to lasting peace and reparations paid by the Imperials for centuries to come.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recLF3Dyip1e2Q7RU}]
The largest skeletal remains on the Plains of Bone, the cyclopean remains of the Leviathan are special for several reasons. Firstly, it has not deteriorated at all in the more than three centuries it had spent there. This longevity can be explained by the fact that the bones are highly magical, although the nature of that energy has escaped the few that had the chance to take a look at it. Second, nobody dared to disturb the mile-long skeleton, which lies in the middle of the Plains unguarded - not even the savage Scortaur dare go near it for some reason. Third, nobody seems to know what creature the skeleton belongs to. According to accounts of travelers, it looks vaguely Draconic in shape, yet somehow details are off. Many claim that it is indeed the corpse of the long-dead Golden Dragonlord but then the other Dragonlords surely would have reclaimed it, wouldn’t they?\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i}]\n[node  {nodn5T73LeQSb69c602V}]
Arken is a large town at the eastern edge of the Arkoros Forest. It has grown to become the center of prospecting, carving, and trade of marble as well as other valuable stone like limestone, granite, and shale. The town is constantly beaten by the winds and dust from the Jagged Waste, which makes life very difficult here.\n\n*Description*\nWith low walls of thick stone and several districts including a set of villas and wonderfully decorated temples, the town would be a noble, even lovely place if not for the constant dust and the wind that blows from the east. Thus, only people who work here live in the town along with some merchants and a handful of dedicated craftsmen and artisans. They diligently carve the stones in their workshops and load their warehouses behind the town’s silt-laden walls, under the watchful eyes of the Praetor. Because it is difficult to withstand the constant barrage of dust, Undead soldiers guard the walls, controlled by licensed Necromancers. Large, open quarries of various stones are nearby, usually strewn along the border of the Arkoros forest.\n\n*History*\nArken has a long history of battling the elements since its founding during the Restoration Period. That was the time when exploring Imperial prospectors found a virtually endless supply of quality stone around the area and the Senate decided to build a town to capitalize on the resources. Luckily for its inhabitants, most wars and strife have avoided the place during the long centuries or else were resisted. The sole exception is the town's sacking during the Orc War. Consequent rebuilding and the ever rising demand for quality marble has made the town rich and busy. Stone is gathered in large warehouses to be sold and shipped off all over the Empire, so trade is quite busy in Arken.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]\n[node {nodKrEr3LdUk869c6006}]
Mirage is a growing trading outpost that is slowly turning into a village in and around the oasis of the same name. The process of settlement is being constantly sabotaged by the vying Trading Houses who want to possess this island of the desert. It is no wonder, for fruit grows in abundance on the trees that also provide shade for weary travelers.\n\n*Description*\nGreen vegetation grows richly around the single large pond called Mirage Lake. The Trading Houses Venari, Darius, and Oquo maintain orchards here, worked day and night by slave labour. The oasis has several sites maintained for /comitati/ to settle into and a small sandstone fort represents the only official Imperial presence, though its garrison is practically non-existent.\n\n*History*\nMirage was always a preferred /comitatus/ stop but the outpost was founded only several decades ago when the Sadirar tribesmen pointed out the potential of orchards around the lake to a group of Trading House agents. Thus the place is often run by one of the Houses but it has changed owners so frequently in the last decade that it is difficult to tell which one is in charge now. Competing for exclusive trading rights at the oasis varies in methods from bribing Imperial officials in the capital to waging all out war. The lake is quite large but parts of it may dry up from time to time, which sends ripples through the fruit growing potential of certain plantations, which in turn brings more violence. Many Sadirar nomads come here who wish to offer their services as guides through the treacherous Arenas Vorax that stretches to the west. Indeed, Mirage is often considered the last bastion of the Empire before the wilderness of the western Searing Plains takes over.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]\n[node {nodTabf3LetVD69c600K}]
The Patron of Flora and Growth, Laviena lived 400 years after the Calamity and became a Saint sometime after her death. A talented scholar and mage, she managed to revive several plant types and made them resistant to post-Calamity conditions. She also made certain mushroom strains into edible and useable crops. These feats alone make her an exceptional individual but Laviena was not only a great researcher and herbalist but also a wonderful and charismatic teacher. She had a large group of acolytes and students and after her death, they continued her work all around the Empire with varying degrees of success. A lot of public gardens and parks are named after Laviena or her students.\n\nThe fact that Laviena could become a Saint of the Imperial cult in an age when dark gods and their cruel proxies rule religious life speaks volumes of her influence and of the fact that people who grow food, tend to gardens, and explore wild places rich in fauna still play a very important role in the Empire. She is worshipped by winemakers and mushroom plantation owners alike, and those who tend to gardens sacrifice small amounts of their yields to her. No priests or widely known magic belong to Laviena - her lore and the knowledge she gathered is taught by herbalists and scholars instead.\n\n[tags {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
The Sepis Mountains (its name means Fence- or Wall Mountains in Imperial) are often called the Far Wall, and are considered to divide the original lands of the Empire - /terra domus/ - and the ‘lands beyond’, /terra supra/. The terrain is dark in color and very rough.\n\nThe mountains are not especially high but are very hard to cross due to difficult terrain including sheer, nigh-vertical rock surfaces, steep cliffs, and criss-crossing crags. The southern slopes are still covered in dark vegetation - forests, bushes, and grass of the Province. The northern slopes are covered in the beige dust of the Singing Winds in the west and the more fertile soil goes up to the feet of the mountains in the east. The single pass that can be crossed without climbing gear is closer to the east and is guarded by the ancient fortresses called the Twin Towers.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regcxbS3QDju484d8002}]
One of the three obsidian quarries of the region, the Drusian is the second one to be established and the most profitable ever since the first Oquo pickaxe and chisel hit the stone there. For hundreds of years, the quarry was slowly getting bigger and bigger, and it has always been quite abundant in the black resource. However, no great yields were ever produced. That is until House Oquo took over a few decades ago. Since then, new obsidian veins are found all the time further from the center of the great pit and the Drusian underwent a great expansion. Hordes of slaves work under the watchful eyes of their overseers to mine and gather ‘the blood of the mountain’. The quarry's name comes from one of the old Imperial provinces from before the Calamity, but why it was named so is anyone's guess.\n\nThe Drusian is an open air quarry, with terraces and scaffolding all along the sides of its gigantic pit. A set of dark stone buildings line the eastern edge and slopes, with a stocky tower forming the central administrative building. House Oquo has owned the Drusian for a time now, and before that it belonged to a conglomeration of several smaller mining cartels, generally unsuccessful in their endeavours. Even though the quarry has always been relatively rich in ore, the Oquo alone managed to enhance its productivity and the quality of the ore to the dismay of many competitors.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]\n[node {nod4Ni33LdWHX69c604Z}]
A fortified tower of almost twenty landings, Vigilus is a dreadful sight to behold, all New Imperial design with its black stone, thorns, barbs, and gargoyles. The tower was built alongside the nearby Fort Viridium some time before the Orc War to guard nearby precious resources and the ventures that harvest them. The great fortress was thought to be too far from the important crossroads and so the Vigilus Tower was raised to serve as a forward outpost. The warning system of the region's strongholds can reach Tor'Zag's Shelter from Viridium in a matter of minutes.\n\nOverseeing the roads of the region, the tower is garrisoned by an elite but small company of legionnaires led by a Centurion Prime. Outlaws and marauders learned to fear the vigilance and battle prowess of the tower’s inhabitants long ago, and so Vigilus has become a great defender of the Empire's citizens.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]\n[node {nodv98f3LdUf569c603s}]
One of the largest standing Imperial forts of the continent, Viridium was built before the Orc War to help oversee obsidian and - to a lesser extent - crystal production in the region, protect assets from possible Draconic incursions from the west, and from the Scortaur in the south. Thus, a large legionnaire force is constantly garrisoned here and patrols the area diligently. The fortress itself is built in the New Imperial style from black stone, and is quite a foreboding sight with its intimidating towers, barbs and thorns of stone on the walls, and a veritable army of gargoyles.\n\nFrom atop one of the highest ridges of the Sergorod’s Blade mountains, the fortress sees all the roads and quarries around it in clear daylight and communicates via fire (nighttime) or light (daytime) signals with the Vigilus Tower and the individual garrisons of the quarries. The Legate of the region resides in Viridium and answers only to the leaders of the Church of Sergorod and to the one of the Twelve who currently rules over the province. The power bestowed upon him would be far more practical if not for the remoteness of the place, but in actual fact the Legate could outrank many officials and military leaders of Tor'Zag's Shelter itself. Getting up to the fortress on the ridge is no small task, as one has to navigate the black rock gullies and chasms of the mountains, but upon reaching it and looking at its massive iron gate, the looming black walls, and the gigantic barbed towers, one realizes how impregnable Fort Viridium really is.\n\n[tags {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl}]\n[node {nod3naj3LdUa269c6033}]
The Loaders' Guild is a /collegium/, a criminal syndicate that evolved from a workers' union for haulers, loaders, and porters. Nowadays, the Guild runs all sorts of illegal business in Imperial cities of the middle region, especially where a strong, low-class laborer community is present.\n\n*History*\nThe Loaders' Guild has abandoned its original purpose of a workers' union and turned into a criminal organization way before the Calamity, although it used to only be the local /collegium/ of the city of Toht where dock- and /comitatus/ work was abundant. Following the cataclysm, survivors of the port were partly held together by the Guild that functioned as a gang with a strong hierarchy and when Toht was rebuilt and /terra supra/ was resettled by the end of the Restoration Period, the Loaders were a well-organized, ambitious, and agile group with a past of hardships and strong traditions. Thus, expansion was inevitable, and so the Loaders' Guild spread from city to city, established new chapters and took over criminal activities by diplomacy or force. Not all their ventures were successful, as their great adversary, the Carpenters' Guild has managed to carve out a part of the northern and middle territories for themselves, too.\n\n*Structure and Activity*\nThe Guild is structured in a fairly standard /collegium/ manner. There is no known central leader, but a handful of captains who have risen to prominence and whose leadership is undisputed - at least as long as they are strong enough. These captains exchange news and messages very often, and their decisions sway the whole Guild in the picked direction, although it is important to note that the Loaders are a typical /collegium/ in that captains and their crews rule individual cities and rarely look at the business of other regions or propagate a Guild-wide goal or philosophy. There is a fair amount of infighting and power grabs in larger cities, and the lesser captains with their crews are constantly shifting in status and responsibilities.\n\nThe Loaders usually put an emphasis on criminal activities that are more natural for their low-class origins, such as smuggling, racketeering, gambling, and betting on sports (especially gladiatoral games). The greatest Loader presence is in Tor'Zag's Shelter, Toht, and Larnak in the middle and northern regions. The Guild's ancient motto is 'Per robis nos scapula', which means 'By the strength of our backs' in Imperial. Well-informed insiders seem to suggest that the syndicate has strong ties to the fairly new House Oquo, but how trustworthy that information is remains difficult to say.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {receCIfXSlpPPQjCY}]
The Dark Elves - or 'Moreldin' in their ancient language - are a fallen tribe of Elves who descended into cruelty, madness, debauchery, and Demon worship. They dwell in dark places and have an intense dislike towards their kin, yet in post-Calamity Xeryn they have found a new home for themselves.\n\n*Appearance*\nDark Elves look like Gwaeth Elves: they are lithe and move gracefully, have pointed ears and smooth features. However, Dark Elves are shorter than their surface-dwelling kin, and they have skin between light grey and obsidian. Their eyes are pale blue and their hair is white or silver.\n\n*History*\nThe Second Age saw the saddest moment of Elven history: the fall of Caladnir Aen Daglunath and the House of Daglunath. In a series of unfortunate events, warriors of the House ended up murdering other Elves, for which they were forever cast out, stripped of their immortality when they were severed from its source. Caladnir led his remaining people into exile in darkness - to the depths of the earth where the abandoned great tunnels and cities of extinct Dwarven clans gave them new homes. Cursed and mortal, they were to wither and die but dark forces out of this world contacted them and offered them a deal: accept their patronage and regain their dwindling immortality. Caladnir and many of the princes of his House accepted the offer only to be corrupted irrevocably by their newfound Demonic masters. They say that the only way they could keep themselves from growing decrepit and dying was by siphoning the life of other beings. Thus, Dark Elven nobility became vampiric beings of utter terror, while their commoner hosts live long - but ultimately mortal - lives. They hate the light and the sun that reveals them for what they truly are and rob them of their night vision. In the next several thousand years, they enslaved Dwarves and surface-dwellers, conquered the deep places of Everdark, built their great cities, and became a power to be reckoned with.\n\nDark Elves were very uncommon on Xeryn before the Calamity, since their fall and subsequent hiding happened over at the Green Continent to the north, but after the cataclysm, many of their Houses relocated to - or under - the Riven Realms, as it seemed to be both a new frontier and a place that became more hospitable to their needs. Not only were some regions vacant, but darkness often ruled the new realms and its stricken denizens were more open to newcomers, however strange they seemed.\n\n*Culture*\nAn average Dark Elf lives up to 200-300 years, yet by learning and applying the Art of Lifedrain, they can theoretically live forever. Some Dark Elven cities can even be found above ground on the continent, in places where the sun does not shine, but most of their city-states are in Everdark, the vast system of caves and tunnels beneath Xeryn. In these places, the vampiric Princes and the decadent nobility rules supreme, and they are reputedly places of terror and pain. Loosely allied with the Empire, Dark Elves are known to worship demons, among whom Bal Ur Kaal is chief. Their kind is often sought after as assassins, scouts, marauders, and mercenaries.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW}]
A relatively small region of arid, brownish, rocky hills right below the Bladescale Highlands outside the westernmost border of the Dragonlands, the Hills of Plenty are named thus for their richness in ore - especially copper and iron.\n\n*Description*\nMany mines line the cliffs east of the Salum-Crimson Gate road, but more are hidden in the jagged hills west of the road. Quarries and ravines make travel quite cumbersome, but the rugged terrain hides precious ore so at most times the region is fairly densely populated by prospectors, miners, and guards. The brown and beige colors are similar to that of the Jagged Waste, but the wind is checked by the hills so rock formations are less twisted.\n\n*History*\nSince their formation following the founding of the Dragonlands, these hills were often contested by the Empire but excluding the Dragon War, in which they took it for themselves briefly, the Imperials never held it for an extended period of time. For the last three centuries, the Hills of Plenty have remained clearly in the Dragonlords' possession. These days, the ore mined here mostly by the Ratharnak Alliance is taken south towards the Crimson Gate, watched over by Dragon Army patrols. Miners are often petitioners who want to join the Dragonlands, displaying their mettle and hard-working nature to their future lords. Among them are spies and agents of the Empire, ever trying to steal ore shipments from under the nose of the Dragons - with varying degrees of success.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}]\n[node {nod4hLq3LdUmW69c600N}]\n[region {reg4mKH3LzrnWd31f004}]
The Ratharnak Alliance is a conglomeration of merchant guilds and interest groups related to either the Green or Bronze Dragon broods. They have been known to be an ever-growing, ruthless presence in the Empire where they deal in goods that are difficult to acquire otherwise. They often have the reputation of secretive and cruel businessmen. Their sigil depicts an ascending dragon on a bronze-green field.\n\n*History*\nThe Alliance came to be after the Dragon War, where the Bronze Dragonlord Haerkenrath and the Green Dragonlord Argador enjoyed effective cooperation. The details of how their covenant came to be are shrouded in mystery but they were the first to commit to such a pact among their mighty kin. Ever since then, the Ratharnak Alliance has kept expanding: at first only on the soil of the Dragonlands but later on, the merchant guild ventured out of their homeland, seeing an opportunity to trade with the Imperials in goods that are extremely difficult to come by but that are in great demand there. The /Dracis Pax/ made this possible, and the Ratharnak entered continental trade around p.c. 520.\n\nThe Ratharnak has been on the rise ever since, although their presence in the south is negligible, having been pushed out of the Province and Hearthlands by the Imperial Trading Houses. Still, /terra supra/ provides enough opportunities to trade for great profit, and the Alliance has been waging a cruel war on its competition.\n\n*Structure and Activity*\nThe Alliance was named after the Dragon who negotiated between his Green brood and the Bronze and eventually brought about the charter of the Trading House. Although Ratharnak herself was assassinated under mysterious circumstances two centuries later, her organization thrives under the watchful eye of several secretive Dragons and their human or Dragonkin agents. The structure and chain of command are quite complex, with senior agents taking the lead based on merit and profits gained.\n\nThe Ratharnak deal in metal, wood, herbs, peat, and dyes - all extremely valuable and sought-after goods in the post-Calamity era. Their holdings in the Dragonlands provide most of their trade resources but some outlying acquisitions have been known to add to that. Some claim that the Alliance has clandestine operations in the background and that their merchant endeavors are only a forefront to hide their intentions. They are at odds with the Imperial Trading Houses by default but are also on less-than-neutral terms with the Scythichnis Covenant despite them originating from the Dragonlands, too.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3}]
The Singing Winds is a strange desert region at the southernmost end of the Jagged Waste, famous and feared for its twisted stone formations that make the winds blowing through them sing eerie and often very disturbing songs.\n\n*Description*\nThis desert is much like the Jagged Waste but the rocks and sand are lighter in color and they also have an almost pinkish tinge. Stones are warped and twisted, creating odd forms that ‘sing’ in the wind. No animals apart from the odd insect bears these winds and the odd voices that come with them, so practically nothing and nobody lives here.\n\n*History*\nLegends say that when Carravhon, the ancient Elven city fell to the Calamity, its queen went mad and she screamed; that scream formed the stone of singing winds and cursed the region at the same time. The region - formerly forests and meadows - has been abandoned since then due to the scarcity of valuable resources and the constant, screaming wind. Carravhon itself is very difficult to reach but some try from time to time - and usually to their demise.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {reg1ZrL3Pa23wd31f00t}]
Dampsmoke is a kind of incense prepared by means of an arduous procedure from the swampweed called Slimegrass. For a long time, the latter was generally considered to have no practical value due to its smell and taste, until about 100 years ago, Imperial treasure hunters chanced upon a formula attributed to the Elves of Ker Anthelas. Apparently, the Elves found the means to repurpose the plant as a repellant during their wars against the insectoid Yrg in ancient times. Burned as an incense, processed Slimegrass emits a dark green, oily, wet smoke - hence the name 'Dampsmoke' - which, although quite foul and repulsive, has a soothing effect on Yrg and temporarily disrupts their connection to their Hivemind, rendering them passive for a while. The reason why the desert-dwelling Yrg would have such a connection and reaction to a swamp plant is hitherto unknown, although it might imply that the Yrg of yore must have been spread to many other climates.\n\n[tags {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx}]
Slimegrass (/Herba Pituita/) is an unassuming plant found predominantly in Maar Gorad and to a lesser extent in other wet, humid places of Xeryn. Generally considered a weed with no nutritional value and of little to no other use whatsoever, it is characterized by a brown-grey hue, serrated leaves, and an unpleasant, bitter odor. Although not poisonous, neither is it edible and has a taste even viler than its smell. It was only relatively recently that its use as a repellant against insectoid creatures - first and foremost Yrg - was rediscovered. For this to work, it has to be processed into Dampsmoke, an incense that keeps bugs away.\n\n[tags {recE8cOwqRIX770Fm}]
'Yrg' is a collective name for a species of large insectoids that share a hive mind and are controlled by a queen. Generally ant-like in appearance, they build large hives either underground or in the form of large hills. Present-day Imperials usually know them as docile mounts but sages claim that Yrgs almost ruled the world thousands of years ago.\n\n*Appearance*\nYrg drones are the most common but most other subspecies share the same general characteristics - six segmented legs, a thorax, abdomen, and a head with dark, chitinous carapace covering all of it. They have strong mandibles and a set of compound eyes. Workers are the size of smaller horses, while the dreaded warriors are hulking beasts standing 8-10 feet tall. Their carapace is very difficult to penetrate, making these creatures extremely sturdy. Their powerful frame enables them to carry many times their weight, which makes them great mounts and beasts of burden. Not only do Yrgs move at a great speed when necessary, but they need very little water and nourishment in general, which makes them ideal in most climates of the accursed continent. Warriors sport larger mandibles and their forward legs evolved into scythe-like appendages.\n\n*Behavior*\nYrgs communicate via their hive mind and by leaving scent. They are very organized, although in the Fourth Age some broods become inexplicably apathetic, sort of shutting down for no apparent reason. Sages claim it is an ailment, while Elves claim it to be a curse of their ancestors. When separated from the hive mind, Yrgs become helpless and die soon, although there are ways to control such specimens by magical means. The most common method is to embed crystals into their head-plates that generate the same mental emission that their hive mind used to. This allows owners to control their Yrgs with simple commands and so the creatures (usually workers) can be used as mounts, beasts of burden, or even beasts of war.\n\nYrgs prefer subterranean lairs but sometimes build large 'castles', which is probably in connection to the Yskorri, a race of insectoids living in symbiosis with some broods in the southern reaches of Xeryn. Thousands of the insects live together in one hive. Hives often go to war against each other and although Yrgs usually shun civilized places and are fairly passive until provoked, Yskorri have been known to have directed them to destroy towns and outposts that were in the way of their plans. Historians claim that the insect race used to be much more common, but an ancient war against the Elves of Ker Anthelas broke them, and since then they have been much less active or aggressive.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x}]
Loom is a /calerus/ of white and light blue crystal formations that cover a large area at the border of the Jagged Waste and the Searing Plains. Formations can be 60-150 feet tall and encompass thousands of individual crystal towers. The place is a maze, and during the day it gives off a blinding light that makes it impossible to go close without protective gear - or going blind. Even so, the heat the crystals give off due to the merciless sunlight is enough to burn men to crisp. Therefore, nobody lives close to Loom, and crystal harvesters only enter during the night, grab what they can, and leave, but even that is rare, because the crystal of Loom is not very valuable in a commercial sense. For these reasons, the place is fairly deserted, though large insectoids have been reportedly drawn to it recently. The forest can be seen from afar in daytime, giving the place its name, and also providing a navigation point to travelers.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regbnxA3LgETp69c600H}]
The Kalani humans of the eastern province of Sargot Kala, Demrot Kala, and Ankot Kala are a stoic, mild-mannered folk who retain a unique culture and have adopted well to the post-Calamity world. They are well-known for their craftsmanship and knowledge of crytals, magical prowess, and diplomatic affinity.\n\n*Appearance*\nKalani are usually dark haired but fair skinned. They tend to be tall and their eyes are often blue or grey. Kalani wear a lot of crystal accessories and jewelry if they can afford it. Because most /caleri/ are blue, their clothes often mimic that, and robes are the most common wear both for women and men.\n\n*History*\nThe Kalani originate from before the War of Sorcerers. Their ancestors were coastal clans of humans who survived the fall of Kimora, an ancient kingdom that fell to an Undead plague. They wandered south from that accursed place and settled there. The largest of the clans were the Ankot, the Demrot, and the Sargot. Later in the Third Age their progressive and wealthy realm joined the Empire and contributed considerably to the rise of Imperial society and culture.\n\nThen the Calamity struck and changed the face of the eastern regions forever, erasing Kalani cities and burning the wonderful forests into formations of glass and crystal. The lowlands in the west sunk and were taken by the sea, forming the inner sea of the Karginath. Those that survived the cataclysm migrated north and south, cut off from each other by the movements of furious waters and quaking earth. It took several centuries to reestablish contact between the clans who ended up on different stretches of land. Clan Ankot was hit hardest and eventually ended up on and under the newly formed island of Ankot Kala east of the continent. Clan Demrot fled north from the destruction and now dwells in the hills and coast of Lanfolgar. Clan Sargot was also hit very hard but assimilated much of Clan Demrot and relocated south, to the land of crystal forests now called Sargot Kala. The three nations formed a new alliance and rejoined the Empire when it re-emerged, forming the Kalani Province.\n\n*Culture*\nSorcery has always been the most desirable occupation of Kalani nobility and this tradition was kept during the ages, and to the great dismay of rival mage clans. Magic users of the Kalani Province usually specialize in Crystalmancy due to the post-Calamity gift of /caleri/, the great crystal forests, which makes the material readily available. Crystal is everywhere in Sargot Kala, the richest and most important of the three regions, so harvesting, growing, and craftsmanships has become the major occupation for its denizens. Kalani are also fairly adept at diplomacy and wherever they appear, issues get straightened out assertively. They even managed to convince the nation of Dor Anthelas to keep an official presence in Bralkorna, the capital of Sargot Kala, and it is common knowledge that the Gwaeth Elves are not easy to socialize with.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW}]
The most secure and lethal prison colony in the Empire, the Varnus Cavadius Detention Colony is called 'Purgatoria' by its inmates and almost everybody else, too. It is situated on the western edge of the Province, just inside the eastern reaches of the Fungal Forest. This alone provides a barrier around it that unprepared individuals are ill-equipped to survive, but most of the prison colony lies underground, with the small number of exits guarded by fortified gates and a small army of Imperial troops. Some sectors of the prison are said to be isolated from the rest by magical fields and only people with glyphs can pass through.\n\nThe inside of Purgatoria is reputedly a lawless place and the guards only care about blocking the entry points. Once someone is thrown in, the gangs of inmates take control of their fate, and so very few manage to survive their sentence in this horrible place. Although organized breakouts have been known to happen from time to time, only a handful of jailbreakers have ever managed to get back to civilization from the Fungal Forest - the hunter-killer beasts, the lethal spores, and venomous fauna take care of those who the guards can not intercept. Still, such revolts are very rare thanks to the inmates' utter dependency on supplies from the outside that Imperial authorities only hand out if the prison is relatively in order.\n\n[tags {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {receCIfXSlpPPQjCY}]
One of the two major Imperial port cities on the Province's coastline, Port Navarum was built after the Calamity on the newly formed edge of the Karginath Sea and has since become a major center for commerce and travel, as well as the Empire's largest shipyards, protected by impressive stone walls and guarded by the Wrecker's Spire.\n\n*Description*\nSituated on the windy coast at the southwestern corner of the Karginath Sea, Port Navarum stands straddling a set of hills just off the beach. The shoreline is neither jagged here nor too high, and small coves are embedded into it at regular intervals. One such cluster of coves form the large bay - the Bay of Navar - around which Port Navarum was built. Constant wind whips the coast and the cityport is known for its constant sea breeze. Because the Port was constructed after the Calamity, it has no classical old town or pre-Calamity buildings, and its architecture is more akin to that of other such cities, like Tor'Zag's Shelter, where an imitation of classical Imperial era is mixed with the many gargoyles, spikes, and blocky stone buildings of the Fourth Age. That said, the ruins of an old city can be found less than a mile away south of the port, and it has become the necropolis of the city. The busiest part of town is the port district with its many piers and docks, the monumental buildings of the Imperial Shipyard looming above them. Yet the most recognizable landmark is just outside the port, at the wide mouth of the Bay of Navar, where a tall, black, jagged rock island forms the base of a menacing dark tower: the Wrecker's Spire. That fort is the reason that Port Navarum's bay was never breached and its port never burned.\n\n*History*\nPort Navarum was constructed in the middle of the Restoration Period (around p.c. 405-410) when the Empire realized it had to gain access to the newly formed waters of the Karginath Sea. Lirinia was largely destroyed by the emerging inner sea and was too far to the north anyway. Adding to that, the reconstruction was coming along slowly, and so the Senate started construction at present-day Bay of Navar (named thusly after the great shipbuilder of the age). Even though the port was small at first, it served as an effective gateway to Karginath and that brought about rapid expansion. Even though the Senate was not supporting building serious walls and fortifications so close to the Hearthlands, the Dragon War proved that such a project was necessary. It became obvious during the Orc War when the city was besieged that the defenses were very effective. Eventually, the Orcs marched onto the Hearthlands and wreaked havoc, but Port Navarum remained relatively unharmed.\n\nShip production was very important to the Empire in the centuries right after the Calamity, because the cataclysm destroyed almost all seafaring vessels. The meager forests of the Hearthlands supported some new ships but the proximity of Port Navarum to the then-uninhabited Darkmoor meant that shipbuilding could be initiated on a larger scale. Even today, Port Navarum is responsible for the construction of most of the Imperial Navy, even though the speed of their work has slowed to a crawl due to the scarcity of wood.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]\n[node {nodGstj3LduJD69c600D}]
House Oquo is one of the grandest and the most rapidly growing Trading Houses in the Empire. It is considered an upstart, young venture that has no business at the table of the big organizations, and yet it has reached its current economical and political power in a matter of decades and does not seem to be slowing down. Their sigil is a set of golden scales on a brown field.\n\n*History*\nThe beginnings of House Oquo can be traced back to several smaller merchant conglomerates and individual tradesmen who banded together about fourty years ago through a series of buyouts, betrayals, unionization, bargaining, inheritances, and marriages, eventually ending up as a single, powerful charter. But such a union would not have been possible without a single, powerful will and in the case of this Trading House it was the will of Oquo. Reputedly, he is a Dajmahan slave who liberated himself, served as a mercenary all over the continent until becoming a warlord, then subsequently bought himself into the already merging conglomerate that eventually became House Oquo under his watch. More legend than man now, Oquo manages his House from a secret location and rumor is that many of his subordinate merchant lords wish him dead.\n\nThroughout its short history, House Oquo has risen to prominence with an amazing speed - so much so, in fact, that many talk of magical means or the blessing of strange Gods. Whatever the case, a series of odd but very lucky coincidences seem to occur quite frequently, all to the benefit of the Oquo. And yet the Trading House also has a turbulent and occasionally outright violent internal life that involves the various merchant lords trying to outbid, manipulate, ruin, or kill each other for getting closer to the top. Is Oquo himself fighting or enjoying this? Nobody seems to know.\n\n*Structure and Activity*\nThe de facto leader of House Oquo is said to be the now elderly Oquo himself, although rumors sometimes spring up about his demise. Under him are all kinds of merchant lords and major agents who are as likely to cooperate as they are to assassinate each other. It does not help matters that the inner structure of the Trading House is very difficult to comprehend and there are sometimes contradicting rules or commands. However House Oquo seems to work and whether or not it will unite or shatter with the inevitable death of its founding father remains to be seen.\n\nThe most valuable assets of House Oquo are the great obsidian quarries of the middle regions of the Empire, as well as the Plains of Bone and other sources of quality ivory nearby - the Drusian and Ioscian Quarries are two major sites. Often considered poorly equipped, Oquo miners and harvesters tend to do an amazing job and the yields of their operations defy all expectations. Many claim that it is thanks to the House's novel, even revolutionary methods of labor and especially slave usage - well-organized teams, adequate rest, good facilities, and a comparatively fair treatment of slaves seem to be involved. House Oquo has yet to come up with a motto of their own.\n\n[tags {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3}]
House Darius is one of the most prominent Trading Houses of the Empire, founded centuries after the Calamity. It owns vast tracts of land and has rights as well as wealth that rival Churches or smaller countries. Its symbol is a bronze trident on a field of crimson, harkening back to the founders' mariner origins.\n\n*History*\nDarius the Bold was a famous sea captain, explorer, nobleman, and merchant who roamed the turbulent seas in the early fifth century post-Calamity. He had a famously good relationship with the budding - and then-free - Tarkian realm in the north, and his ventures paid off very well, elevating him to become one of the richest men on Xeryn. Eventually, Darius died without a true heir and had to contend with cutting up his wealth and distributing it among his four daughters, all born from different mothers, all married into prestigious but poor aristocratic families. However, his daughters were clever enough to force their husbands (or assassinate them according to some) to reunite the family fortune. An organization was born out of their loose alliance and soon enough matured into a full-fledged Trading House.\n\nThe greatest merit of the following generation was to recognize how the war against the Green Continent stretched Imperial supply lines thin and capitalizing on it. Over the centuries to come, this focus and the will to back it up pushed House Darius to be the foremost military supplier in the realms. Later leaders of the House had no scruples about slave labor and so the organization invested a great deal in the slave trade, capitalizing on their good relationship with the legions thanks to decades of supplying them. Today, the Trading House is the greatest supplier of quality slaves and even has an interest and a market in trained slaves (for various niches including craftsmen, teachers, administrators, housekeepers, harlots, or gladiators). Although they do not like to be called slavers, House Darius does not shy back from taking stock from those who raid and oppress - although they like to do such business relatively quietly.\n\nTheir motto, 'Ego portus profectus', which means 'I am the bringer of prosperity' hails from Darius himself, although many speculate that the noble-spirited and savvy merchant-explorer would not be happy to see what his legacy has become. Still, House Darius is a powerful organization with an Empire-wide political sway as well as a lot of power over the Senate and even some military leaders.\n\n*Structure and Activity*\nHouse Darius is run by four powerful leaders called Captains in honor of Darius the Bold, although most say that their wives control much of their actions through manipulation and subterfuge. Captains usually oversee a large segment of their territories but some are known to have tried monopolizing one or several goods or services. Quartermasters are beneath Captains and tend to be in charge of a smaller region, a collection of outposts or markets. The mercenary companies also have a say in the House's governance through their own captains, as well as the leaders of House Darius' own small army. All in all, the Trading House is very militant and is modeled after a privateering venture - so much so that they are often called the 'buccaneers of the wasteland'.\n\nTheir most valued assets are in weapon production (mainly from obsidian but also some metal), armor crafting (especially bronze and hide armor), producing cheap military supplies (from mushrooms or dried meat), and slaves. They even have great slave training centers, usually next to major slave markets; but they also are known to be able to provide exquisitely trained and rare slaves to wealthy customers. Their obsidian quarries and mining rights are constantly threatened by House Oquo and even Bedvios, and House Venari has been known to compete fiercely with them in the slave-trading business. Yet House Darius is so intricately intertwined with the Imperial Legions and their offices that it would be nigh-impossible to dislodge them from these businesses.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
Mercatus is the Saint of Commerce, Currency, and Trade, one of the most influential lesser deities of the Empire, which is a mercantile nation at its heart. Like most Imperial Saints, Mercatus was a mortal man before deified during the late Third Age. As opposed to other Saints, however, whose lives are often shrouded in mystery or obscured by legend, the life of Mercatus was relatively well-documented. It is known that he was a wealthy noble who became a Senator, then used his fortune and power to sway the Senate towards reforms in trade and commerce. During his long political career, he was able to streamline Imperial currencies, introduce laws that ensured fair commerce and form the basis of present-day Imperial trade, and help regulated Trading Houses. Not only was Mercatus made a Saint very soon after his death but he is among the several Saints to have survived the religious purge of the Calamity. He is doubtless the most popular and well-respected lesser deity in present day Empire.\n\nThe Saint has his own monks who oversee, log, and sanctify important trade in cities but they do not have magic of their own. They are administrators more than holy men, although they consider their responsibilities sacred. Trade disputes between powerful people are also often mediated by the monks. The Week of Mercatus is a six day long festival of feasts, entertainment, and arena games starting from the Idis of Caldarius. Mercatus monks compensate any trader who give discounts and in the largest cities, they consecrate Imperial arenas in the Saint's name - spectacular gladiator games follow and the spilt blood further blesses next year's trade.\n\n[tags {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
The terrifying Zyrn are the most feared monsters on the dark continent of Xeryn, which is quite telling in and of itself. They look like a cross between a nightmare spider, a Stinger Scorpion, and a deadly giant reptile. Not only do they have a veritable arsenal for dealing with victims quickly but are also almost impossible to kill.\n\n*Appearance*\nZyrn are 18-20 feet long, six-legged creatures of flat, elongated form, with two scorpion-like tails. A cross between insectoid and reptilian, Zyrn are covered by chitin scales that are very flexible and provide protection like plate armor. Their heads have two large and a dozen small eyes - all green, non-compound - and a maw with sharp teeth and a whip-like tongue. All six legs end in four-fingered hands armed with steel-hard claws on each. There are long, piercing chitin missiles at the end of both tails that can be shot rapidly at targets, aiming at vulnerable areas. Missiles regrow over a few days.\n\n*Behavior*\nPreferring regions where it is easy to dig in sand or silt, Zyrn live solitary lives. Luckily, the monsters are very rare, and mostly roam the northern and central deserts - they are believed to be originally from Tark or the Bronze Desert. Zyrn are extremely fast and can run at terrible speeds, climb on all but the flattest surfaces, and jump dozens of feet from a standing position. Zyrn utilize bites, claws, and tails - that have battle-scythe-shaped chitinous growths - in combat. They always try to dig into sand or soft earth and ambush their prey. Other things in their arsenal include a spit attack that can make victims blind and glue their hands and weapons together, rendering them useless for minutes. Zyrn also use their whip-like tongue to attack: it leaves the same gooey material upon impact. Highly magical in nature, Zyrn possess close to full arcane immunity, and are known to reflect magical energies back toward their foes. Zyrn can attack using a mental ability that degrades the enemy’s mind slowly. It is unknown how Zyrn were created but some claim them to be manufactured in sorcerers' laboratories, while others think they are the result of the Calamity. Whatever they are, nobody has ever found a nest or any evidence of their reproduction, and so sages claim that there are a set number of Zyrn and sooner or later they will die out; or else they spawn new specimen using magical means.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x} {recdbVxBTES840oDS}]
Large, black, and covered in thick chitinous armor adorned with spikes, Stinger Scorpions are dreadful beasts that lurk the desert nights and prey on anything they can kill - and they can kill almost anything.\n\n*Appearance*\nStinger Scorpions are 18-20 feet long, covered in dark chitin armor as sturdy as steel. A large part of their body surface is covered with a veritable forest of 4-8 inch long chitin spikes that can skewer unwary attackers. Thus it is very difficult to get near and deal damage to the hulking scorpions without suffering stabs and cuts. A large stinger and two powerful pincers complete the creature's arsenal, all easily able to vanquish human-sized foes in the blink of an eye. A cluster of black, compound eyes follow prey with frightening intelligence.\n\n*Behavior*\nStinger Scorpions live almost exclusively in the Jagged Waste and Searing Plains, and prefer extremely hot and arid climates. They are solitary creatures, and an encounter between adult scorpions usually end in a killing except for the mating season. During the day, these bestial insects lie dormant under the sand, though when the ground is disturbed or too much tremor is caused, they can explode into action from underground in an astonishing and often gory display of speed and power. Even during the night - when the scorpions are out on the hunt - they sometimes dig in to ambush prey. The venom in their large tail-stingers is deadly to most creatures smaller than the Stinger Scorpion, and can take effect in a matter of seconds when the stab is accurate. Although it was never verified, these hulking monsters are probably the result of magical experiments post-Calamity.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x}]
A relatively small but persistent trading station, the Dustwind Outpost is run and guarded by the Empire. Its main goal is to provide a midway stop between Deven and Toht, and give the opportunity for merchants to deal with Ashmen tribes.\n\n*Description*\nSurrounded by a stone wall and positioned right off the Emperor's Road, Dustwind Outpost has several low buildings and a marketplace covered by a large leather awning stretched between the ribs of a gigantic creature's ribcage. Two gates provide entrance to the station - one on the north, another in the south. A single stone tower is the tallest building, which doubles as a garrison for local guards and as the administration center.\n\n*History*\nDustwind Outpost was set up about a 100 years ago, though many precursors existed throughout the centuries since the fifth century post-Calamity. All of these were wiped out sooner or later thanks to devastating ash storms and indeed, Dustwind itself was rebuilt or dug out from under a mountain of ash with incredible effort several times already. Wars avoided it, though sometimes tribes of Ashmen risked raiding it when the wasteland turned them especially desperate. None of these were very successful, mostly because of the vigilance of the local guard force which consists of mercenaries with the additional small legionnaire garrison.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]\n[node {nodJQfN3LdW9869c6031}]
Called Raokan, the Green Continent is to the north of the Riven Realms and is believed to be a pristine, beautiful, fertile realm of clean air, vast mountain ranges, rolling green hills, and thick forests. It is about three times the size of Xeryn, and it is connected to it via a series of large islands, including Vroleah and Viran. There is little to no communication between the two continents due to constant war fuelled by Imperial leadership and religion.\n\nIn Imperial society and Triumvirate dogma, the Green Continent, its Gods, and its people are the reason for Xeryn's downfall. Their constant rebellion against the enlightened rule of the Emperor and barbaric beliefs led to fierce war to which the Elder Gods reacted with triggering the Calamity in their confusion and madness. For this reason, it is considered the Empire's divine duty to wage war against Raokan and its inhabitants - a conflict that has been raging on and off ever since the re-awakening of the Empire centuries ago. The Twelve spearhead this effort, and even though the constantly renewed war has destroyed most of Viran and all of Vroleah, Imperials have not yet managed to actually set foot on the Green Continent. The chief reason for this is the collaboration of a large variety of nations and realms on Raokan, called the Sacred League, an economic and military alliance that has always managed to save them from total annihilation at the hands of the dark legions of the Empire. To the inhabitants of Raokan, the Empire of Xeryn are anathema - a dark tyranny abusing magic, slaves, and Undead; for the Imperials, the Sacred League is the great enemy, a vile collection of treacherous barbarians who stole their future.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW}]
Brightkelp is the common name for the dried, phosphorescent kelp harvested from parts of Everdark and especially from Darkwater. When burning even a handful of it, the kelp burns for hours with a white, potent light superior to most other kinds of illumination save crystal lamps. It is sought-after in most parts of the Empire and especially in underground cities and realms. In its natural, living form, brightkelp covers vast sections of the sunless seas of Darkwater and some underground lakes of Everdark. It is dark green and wet to the touch, and emits a salty, bitter stench.\n\n[tags {recE8cOwqRIX770Fm}]
Kalarruk is a sky God who has great power over winds and storms. Worshipped solely by the Ashmen of the Forlorn Waste, he is considered by his followers to be the only true God despite the nomads' knowledge and begrudging acceptance of other deities and religions. It has been posited by scholars that the God is a version of the Kal-rish god Kal-dai-Ruhk, Great Spirit of the Eternal Wastes, and the ashen nomads merely adopted his worship after they came into contact with the newcomer goatmen a few centuries following the Calamity.\n\nAshmen believe that every living thing starts out as dust and comes to life only after Kalarruk breathes on them. When the breath of the God runs out, so does their life and thus they return to dust. Kalarruk is also a very capricious God, prone to send ash storms in his wrath but sometimes aids good hunters in a similar way to Irafons, the Imperial Saint of Roads.\n\n[tags {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY}]
Ash Qurru are gigantic shelled gastropods that roam the Forlorn Waste in herds and filter the silt and ash for sustenance. They are gentle, slow creatures that hide in their nigh-impenetrable shells to avoid being killed by predators. Ashmen have a symbiotic relationship with the Qurrus who provide food, shelter, and raw materials that are necessary for the survival of those nomadic tribes.\n\n*Appearance*\nQurrus are large, with younger specimen reaching 9-12 feet in length and 9 feet in height, while adults being easily twice that size. Their soft part is pale, with dark veins and intestines showing through a rubber-like, surprisingly strong skin. Four to eight stalks on their head end in large eyes, while several maws open on their underside. The creatures have ash-beaten, wind-scarred, yellowish horn shells on their backs that they carry with themselves and use for protection. These shells are very difficult to damage, and an adult's shell is over 3 feet thick, able to withstand almost any kind of damage. Rare metal and obsidian tools are used in each tribe to cut parts off and have those fashioned into tools, weapons, or armor.\n\n*Behavior*\nIn the case of ash storms or other danger, Qurrus just hide in their secure shells. Very few creatures can penetrate this defense, but Yrg, for example, have been known to dig under the shell to get to the soft parts. Qurru gain nourishment from the ash and zig-zag great distances through the Ashlands during their long, long life. Their shells are used as houses or raw materials for tools by the Ashmen tribes, who in turn travel with the Qurrus and keep them from other danger, effectively working as shepherds for the gentle giants. Qurrus provide a lot of meat when killed properly, and the nomads only take what they need - such a kill is a part necessity, part ritual, and is considered sacrosanct. Herds, however, seem to split on a whim, so the Ashmen need to adapt to the Qurrus quite often. Everyone apart from the nomadic tribesmen considers the Qurrus dim-witted snails but the Ashmen seem to believe that the creatures are much more intelligent than people think.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x}]
Ashmen are the nomadic descendants of the people who inhabited the northern provinces of Kerun, Dorak, and Ioscia. These people were Imperial in origin but the Calamity turned their homelands into deserts of ash and silt, cursed with constant ash storms and arcane anomalies, so they took to a nomadic life of hardships.\n\n*Appearance*\nIt is said that the ash drains the color and joy out of people who stay in the Ashlands for any extended period of time. Though the Ashmen seem to be living proof of the contrary, most agree that they do seem grey in skin and hair even if they leave the ash deserts for a longer time, and are grimmer than most other people of the continent. Due to their symbiosis with the Qurru and their many smaller kin, yellowish horn shells of varied sizes adorn their leather garments, and they make use of ivory to craft and decorate their gear.\n\n*History*\nThe Calamity decimated the provinces of Kerun, Dorak, and Ioscia perhaps more than any other region on Xeryn, and there were very few survivors. Most of those who did not perish took shelter in underground vaults or caves, while some fled the region in time, believing the Omens. The descendants of these survivors have become the Ashmen who never really influenced history, having become a nomadic people adapted to the harsh conditions of the Ashlands who have little care, interest, or say in the politics of the Empire. Because their population is very low and they are fragmented into tribes that do not cooperate, the Ashmen have never become a power to alter history. This seems to be changing, however, as increasingly deadly ash storms and deteriorating weather conditions have led to a great migration of the tribes that seem to be no longer interested in keeping with their millennium-long traditions and eking out a living in their forlorn homeland. Their appearance in great numbers further south has become a problem the other provinces will have to deal with soon enough.\n\n*Culture*\nThese nomads make a living by following, herding, and hunting Ash Qurrus - large slugs that inhabit the forsaken place. Ashmen wear protective leather garbs and masks and are known as fierce fighters, hunters, and trackers. They have some permanent encampments, but most of them wander the Ashlands constantly. Some of their wares are sought after by merchants, especially Qurru meat that has become a strange delicacy down south as well as the shells and horn that the nomads use for making tools and even armor.\n\nMost Ashmen organize themselves in tribes, but they are so varied that few generalizations can be made. While most tribes live off of Qurrus and hunts, some have become raiders or even nomadic tradesmen. The vast majority of these communities are wandering along the Qurru herds and have only temporary camps but there are a few well-known Ashlander villages and one town called Ashe Bakku near the Dragonlands. The people of the Forlorn Waste worship Kalarruk, a sky-god adopted from the wandering Kal-rish tribes that came into contact with the Ashmen relatively early on following the Calamity. Kalarruk is a dreadful deity, bringing ash storms in his wrath but protecting good hunters when he sees fit. The nomads also seem to identify a spirit entity that embodies the Qurru, and ritual killings have to be performed by the rules, else the being becomes angry.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recLF3Dyip1e2Q7RU}]
The largest continuous wasteland on the continent of Xeryn, the Forlorn Waste (colloquially called the ‘Ashlands’) got its name from the grey-colored silt looking like ash that covers most of the region. It is said that long exposure to the place drains the color from your clothes, skin, and hair, but even worse, it claims your spirit in the end. The tough Ashlander tribes roam the place nonetheless, herding the gentle Ash Qurrus and hunting rogue Yrg.\n\n*Description*\nThe endless grey dunes are formed by the constantly blowing winds and ash storms often rage over the vast plains. Skies are constantly grey with dark streaks foretelling the approach of the devastating storms, while arcane anomalies are common in the bleak desert. The silt of this place is so fine that quicksands are quite common, and generally, it is more difficult to navigate the endless expanse than most other deserts on the continent. Ashlanders live here, along with some wandering Kal-rish tribes, and though their cultures mesh poorly, necessity has made trading partners and sometimes allies of them. Unique life-forms have developed that can live in unbearable conditions in the nearly waterless wasteland. Among them are the giant, snail-like Qurru that wander in herds and are so huge that one of them can sustain whole tribes of Ashlanders for weeks.\n\n*History*\nMost of the large expanse that is now the Forlorn Waste used to be vast, arboreal regions (Kerun, Dorak, and Ioscia) that supplied many cities with timber and game, but the Calamity burned everything so thoroughly that the land itself turned to glass, then was broken by the Elder Gods into fine, grey silt that never seems to run out. What little life was not destroyed outright was changed through arcane mutations and is now unrecognizably altered to be able to survive on the ashen wasteland. Imperials were really slow to reclaim this part of their old empire and so the Waste was among the last regions to be retaken way after the end of the Restoration Period. Even these days, the Ashlands are very sparsely populated - really, apart from a handful of trading outposts and tribal settlements, no permanent dwelling of mortals exists on its endless grey expanse. Consequently, wars mostly avoided the place because of the utter lack of strategic locations. Some old ruins can still be found half-buried in the sea of silt and scholars as well as treasure hunters sometimes dare risk entering them.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regE24m3LeQUv69c602c}]
The Septarius Alliance is a loose trading conglomerate overseen by Crystalmancers from Sargot Kala who, through their commercial power, have some lobbying clout in the Senate and thus can practice their trading rights in some remote regions as well. The Septarii seem to be mainly interested in the properties of crystals they draw their arcane might from, and often sacrifice profit to be able to study or acquire rare specimens. Rumor is that very prominent Crystalmancers are the real power behind the Alliance and even some wild conspiracy theories have sprung up about them. All the while, the Septarii and their numerous servants and proxies are busy dealing in crystal, acquiring assets, and building remote trading outposts.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
Crystalmancers are mages who specialize in Crystalmancy, the art of tapping into magical energies through crystals and creating tools and spells for that purpose. According to them, the energies of the universe - indeed its very essence - manifests in complex crystalline formations in a most profound and pure way, and so by delving into the secrets of these materials one delves into the secrets of the universe.\n\nCrystalmancy as we know it today is a relatively new magical art, having risen to prominence with the appearance of vast crystal forests that manifest magical properties all over the continent of Xeryn. With the discovery of their use came the discovery of their arcane potential and so in a few centuries, Crystalmancers appeared whose magical studies were focused on the crystals. Their greatest concentration - and thus the center of their art and education - is the province of Sargot Kala where the largest and most numerous /caleri/ can be found. Somewhat free of Imperial regulations of mages, they freely practice their craft and seek to unlock the secrets of crystals and crystal magic. That said, Crystalmancers do not belong to a single institution and sometimes the art is passed down by singular masters to apprentices, all of them different and quite varied. Sometimes the mages do organize themselves into associations but these do not last long most of the time.\n\nEven the most inexperienced Crystalmancers can provide certain arcane services that make them valuable for communities and rich at the same time. Simple crystal magic items, such as crystal lamps that can shine for decades, are sought after and crafted by these mages quite frequently. Other mages or even priests look for energy crystals that are specifically enchanted to store magical energies for later use. For more experienced Crystalmancers, there are few limits to what kind of spells they can embed into the right kind of crystals, and it is rumored that they can even store memories or consciousness in crystals.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recdbVxBTES840oDS} {recLF3Dyip1e2Q7RU}]
The center of Imperial crystal harvesting outside of Sargot Kala, Lumen is a mid-sized town in the middle region of the Empire, nestled right next to the South Calerus. The blue /ceruleus/ crystal produced here is one of the most important resource in the province.\n\n*Description*\nLumen has dome-shaped and square sandstone huts above ground, and a large system of tunnels and caves below. During the day, light from the relentless sun gets magnified so powerfully by the crystal forest that nobody can look at it directly without going blind in minutes. Therefore, protective goggles were invented, but in the middle of the day, even those are of little help. Most harvesting therefore is done in the morning, during the night, and in the evening, so inhabitants spend the scorching hours indoors or underground. To provide additional shielding against the murderous heat, great fan-shaped palisades and walls of canvas and leather were erected right at the border of the town and the /calerus/. Most of Lumen is thus safe yet few risk going above ground in daylight. Even in the many deep but roofless squares the heat is hardly bearable under the canopy of colorful awnings so folk stick to the tunnels and caves. Many markets and warehouses take up large parts of Lumen, and despite the risks of the crystal forest, all kinds of folk stay here.\n\n*History*\nLumen was founded decades ago and is run by the Empire, with a Praetor in charge and a sizeable garrison guarding it. The town is also well-known for its crystal sculptors and carvers, as well as the occasional crystal mage or apprentice looking for materials for his master, but resident Crystalmancers are also said to dwell here, perhaps having been drawn here by the unique properties of the crystals.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]\n[node {nodCERF3LdUZu69c602w}]
A small town in the middle of nowhere, Velarias was built almost completely underground to shield inhabitants from the heat and dangerous winds of the Jagged Waste. Having failed as a mining colony, it is now the dwelling of a wayward clan of Wraiths who have a very ill reputation.\n\n*Description*\nOn the surface, Velarias does not look large - only a handful of hovels and some toppled sandstone walls. Underground, however, the village is quite busy. Tunnels and corridors are its streets, halls and caverns are its squares. Shafts of light come through holes bored with great care into the ceiling to provide some illumination for visitors; the resident Wraiths do not care as they can see perfectly well in pitch black. It is said that not even the pale little scavengers know all the nooks and crannies, all the secret passages that are all over the village.\n\n*History*\nFounded in p.c. 901, Velarias was originally a mining colony: Imperial prospectors found some minerals in the area. However, the quarries quickly dried up and there has not been any prospecting here for at least 200 years. Instead, the abandoned hovels, underground homes, and tunnels were re-populated by fugitives and scoundrels - mostly Wraiths from Deven - who had other plans: though the region is not rich in ore, it is fairly close to one that is, the Hills of Plenty. Thus, illegal prospecting and stealing ore became the most important means of survival for locals. They call it ‘going over there’. Additionally, in the last 150 years, all kinds of nasty business was conducted in Velarias, be it smuggling goods between the Empire and Dragonlands, slave trading, and even running a black market. They tend to refrain using violence, though, if it can be helped.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl}]\n[node {nod7m5j3LdUkZ69c600B}]
Carravhon, called the Howling City, is one of the most prominent ruins of the middle regions of Xeryn. It is of Elven origin, and it is said that the ancient magic of those fey people made the winds around its silver towers go mad. For that reason, no living soul has been able to enter Carravhon since its fall during the Calamity.\n\n*Description*\nThe ruins look pristine from afar. The city was built of white marble with Elven decorations of silver and gold running in floral patterns along its slender towers and clean walls. Golden domes were rising above gardens and parks. Now only desiccated trees remain but the shining metal decoration and white marble can be seen even from afar, drawing many treasure hunters close who never return. People say that Queen Orowen’s specter haunts the ruins and her scream can kill just as easily as it used to lift hearts.\n\n*History*\nCarravhon was an independent Elven city-state on the edge of the Empire’s arboreal middle provinces. It seceded from Dor Anthelas - the Elven kingdom of the continent - many thousands of years ago when the Elven Queen Orowen aen Muír Dramwúa took her people over the continent and settled at the foot of the Sepis Mountains. There the Elves built a city of wonderful white marble and clear silver, and were foremost among those that taught the humans, thus aiding in their rise to dominance. Cultured and learned, Carravhon’s Elves were the masters of music. Orowen’s singing voice was said to be able to make people weep in joy, and her magic worked wonders through that voice. When the Calamity burned and destroyed everything, Carravhon was not spared either: the magnificent city shook and collapsed, its residents and music falling silent forever. Now situated at the far end of the Singing Winds, Carravhon is a haunted place. People speak in hushed tones of the voice of Queen Orowen being carried on the melodious winds of the desert but anyone going close to the ruins themselves tell tales of a horrid, deafening cacophony coming from there on the brutal gales and even tornadoes.\n\nQuite recently, the city has seen a lot of activity. A series of earthquakes and terrible, screaming winds burst out of the ruins northward, opening up the earth in giant, snake-like chasms. Ever since, the wind does not relent, burning the mind of anyone who ventures too close.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i}]\n[node  {nodBgtW3Pa1vXd31f00i}]
Once beautiful Madrigos, an Imperial city famous for its wealth, hospitality, and snow-white marble walls, this forsaken ruin has become the capital of the Scortaur, a race of scorpion-men who hunt all other races mercilessly and uncompromisingly on and around the Plains of Bone. They call their city Scorponar, and only few can tell the tale of seeing its shattered buildings and crumbling walls. Those who did see it talk about bone scaffolding and fortifications - from ivory taken from the surrounding plains -, flayed bodies hanging from battlements, and skin banners. Scorponar is a place of horror and despair, with the old white stone of Madrigos peeking out from under the colorless sands like broken teeth or shattered bones. Like a dreadful nest of poisonous vasps, Scorponar belches forth vermin when kicked, which has happened whenever someone decided to put an end to the Scortaur threat by attacking the ruins - and failed spectecularly every single time.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl}]\n[node {nodKYz23LeQSi69c602b}]
The Constrictor is a legendary creature that supposedly roams Maar Gorad, although nobody has verified its existence officially, and most contemporary people on the continent believe it to be fictitious. However, the gargantuan, fresh, round ravines that can be found in that accursed swamp may lend credibility to the claims of the Constrictor existing. With Maar Gorad being so thoroughly abandoned, there may even be more than one such a monster roaming its muddy expanse.\n\nThose who have claim having seen the creature describe it as a gargantuan, worm-like being with an eyeless head ringed by thousands of teeth the size of men. It is covered in dark green armor, through which a titanic, flesh-red body can be seen pulsating. The creature is so huge that it can swallow people and mounts whole but that makes it especially peculiar that nobody has found it or its lair; this is claimed to be because it dwells and slumbers underground most of the time.\n\nBut what could this creature be if it really exists? The few serious sages who looked into the matter believe the Constrictor to be a distant descendant - or even progenitor - of the Sand Wyrms that plague the west, simply having adapted to a different environment after the Calamity.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x}]
The notorious swampland called Maar Gorad ('The Unforgiving Swamp' in the ancient language of the region) stretches south of the plains of Hargad Tuul, lapped by the dark waters of the Karginath Sea along a wide, wet coastline. It is an ill-reputed place that is almost completely abandoned by mortal races.\n\n*Description*\nThe swamp is a green and wet place, something that most travelers don’t see in the north, yet it is no place of joy. Deep holes and soft muck below the thin water can devour unwary people in a heartbeat. Mosquitoes travel in hungry packs and carry horrible diseases. Leeches and other vermin hide in the muck and attach themselves onto passersby. Ruined settlements stick out of the mud here and there, especially around the southern coast of the swamp. Little to no trees stand here, only thorny bushes and sickly green turf, making Maar Gorad a bleak and cold place. Fog often settles in the morning and evening, sometimes bringing with it the unnamable dwellers of the Gloomweb in the northeast.\n\n*History*\nMaar Gorad used to be a region of gentle hills and wide plains before the Calamity, but that quickly changed as the ocean waters rushed in towards the heart of the continent during the cataclysm and formed the Karginath Sea. Present day Maar Gorad was the region where the horrible flood stopped due to elevation but still caused the area to become a fetid, coastal swampland. Constant rain from the sea helps in maintaining the humidity of Maar Gorad. Great cities that used to crown the hills of the region disappeared under the mud or the waters, including the city of Urad that simply vanished overnight. There is talk of a giant beast, a veritable leviathan that burrows in the mud and could swallow men on mounts whole. Nobody could verify its existence since the rumored sightings first occured around the fourth century post-Calamity, but travelers refer to it as the Constrictor. For these many reasons, most folk avoid the place altogether since its formation.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regDDfb3LgESs69c600G}]
The Flavo Calerus is a crystal forest made up entirely of light yellow and white crystals. During the day, light from the relentless sun gets magnified so powerfully by the crystal forest that nobody can look at it directly without going permanently blind. The heat is also intense when the crystal formations are hit by sunlight, so it is very risky to go inside the forest in daylight even with magical protection. Strangely, no crystal creatures have been found roaming these forests. Flavo Calerus is west and north of the twin forests of the North and South Calerus, with the small settlement named 'Crystal' having been recently built next to it. Despite that the Empire has not really claimed the place, mostly because of its crystal yield being of inferior quality. /Flavo/ crystal is rarely used for Crystalmancy due to its properties but recently it has become a cheap alternative for /ceruleus/ crystal for other crafts and so large scale harvesting has begun.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regziNt3MoLqud31f002}]
This /calerus/ is made up entirely of light blue crystals. It is situated southwest of the North Calerus, just southwest from the Arkoros Forest. During the day, light from the relentless sun gets magnified so powerfully by the crystal forest that nobody can look at it directly without going permanently blind. The heat is also intense when the crystal formations are hit by sunlight, so it is very risky to go inside the forest in daylight even with magical protection. In addition, crystal creatures roam this forest that can be quite dangerous, though they are much fewer in number than in the North Calerus. The South Calerus has the best quality crystal in all the Empire except for distant Sargot Kala, where forests are tended to by Crystalmancers. Therefore, both legal and illegal harvesting takes place under dangerous conditions to produce as much crystal as possible. The town of Lumen sprang up next to the /calerus/ several decades ago when the Empire began to take harvesting seriously.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regqP7d3LgACX69c6008}]
This /calerus/ is made up almost entirely of blue crystals - some lighter, some darker blue. It is the largest /calerus/ outside of distant Sargot Kala, and it lies northeast of the South Calerus, just west of Arkoros Forest. During the day, light from the relentless sun gets magnified so powerfully by the crystal forest that nobody can look at it directly without going blind. The heat is also intense when the crystal formations are hit by sunlight, so it is very risky to go inside the forest in daylight even with magical protection. Yet, the North Calerus is much less intolerable in these matters than the South one but more crystal creatures roam it than any other forest, and they appear much more active and lethal. What makes the North Calerus almost completely abandoned, however, is the fact that the crystals harvested here are of much worse quality in general. They are more likely to break, and their composition makes them unuseable for Crystalmancy and other arts.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regF3Ao3LgAC469c6007}]
/Calerus/ is the Imperial word for a crystal forest, a natural phenomenon that has been known to exist since the Calamity. The thaumaturgical qualities of that cataclysm gave rise to these crystalline regions and they have been a source of danger and riches ever since.\n\nEach /calerus/ is unique, though there are some common properties. All of them are lethal to most living beings during the day: the rays of the sun are reflected and empowered by the crystal formations so much that their light literally blinds those who look upon them directly, and their heat cooks people who go too close alive. Some /caleri/ even have living crystal creatures and arcane energy sparks that can kill trespassers. The crystal harvested from a formation is not innately valuable - rather, one has to find the right kind of crystal, the one usable in both mundane and arcane craftsmanship. Such nodes are mined mercilessly when found, even despite the risks.\n\nMost /caleri/ are found in Sargot Kala, a land known for its crystal riches, but the central Empire also has its fair share of the large forests, such as the North and South Calerus. The Everdark is similarly very rich in crystal, though the properties of those are somewhat different and are thus rarely referred to as /caleri/.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}]
The Hollow Crags is the westernmost part of Hargad Tuul, and is mostly the same as the great grassy yet bleak plains except for the eponymous crags and ravines that create a labyrinthine web that is especially cumbersome to navigate. The grey field is covered in sparse vegetation - mostly thorny bushes and pale grass.\n\nIt is said that when Madrigos was destroyed in the Calamity, some of its inhabitants fled east, hoping to find refuge there. The descendants of these people are now called the Hollow Eyes, strange and elusive mutants that live in close-knit families inside hidden caves in the crags here. The dreaded and xenophobic Hollow Eyes are very territorial and attack trespassers by sending their herds of Undead. Thus, most people go around the Crags to avoid confrontation, and thus the nigh-invisible Hollow Eyes reign supreme.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {reg9nZM3LgESW69c600F}]
Dragmolac is a strange, isolated country that relies on its astonishing military and sorcerous power to survive while surrounded by enemies. Its continued existence in the face of constant strife and war with the Empire is a testament to its might and resilience, positioning it among the most powerful realms on the continent of Xeryn. Founded by the solitary Black Dragonlord called Kromagonis after the Calamity, the country values martial prowess and discipline above all else.\n\n*History*\nSeven great Dragonlords formed the Dragonlands when they landed on the continent in p.c. 317, but the eighth Dragonlord - the oldest and reputedly most powerful of them - separated from his brethren and flew west to land at the southern end of the Mountains of Fire near Akadia Bay in p.c. 323. There the mighty Kromagonis cast a spell similar to the one the other Dragonlords used to create their own realm.\n\nBy p.c. 450, the Black Dragonkin appear and Dragmolac is filled with new settlers who abide by the laws of Kromagonis: work hard and earn prosperity and security. The Empire has been antagonistic towards Dragmolac right from their discovery during the Restoration Period, even more so than towards the Dragonlands, figuring that one Dragonlord is easier to defeat than seven. This led to war only after the Dragon War, however, which showed the Empire the true strength of the Dragonlands. Thus, in p.c. 472 the War of the Black Lord broke out but the Imperial legions were severely beaten by the Black Dragon Armies. The Dragonlands jumped into the conflict in p.c. 474 and beat the Empire into submission despite the reappearance of Pedraghor as a Dragon-Lich. Yet, Kromagonis refused to sign the Dracis Pax, which would have guaranteed peace between the realms and so became embroiled in conflict with the Imperials for the long centuries to come.\n\nAnd so strife between the Empire and the stalwart forces of Dragmolac continued to flare up through the centuries. Border wars and raids were so common that the people of the Black Dragon are said to welcome it and even seek it to better themselves through conflict. The First and Second Taludhar Conflicts (p.c. 533 and p.c. 572) were fought against the Empire's invading forces, the cause being the eponymous Taludhar Valley with its rich mines. Both of these border wars that Dragmolac won. Talien's War of p.c. 874 continued this tradition, though according to legend, the freelancer warlord named Talien caused the utter defeat of the northern Imperial frontier. Many smaller wars cropped up in the second half of the millennium but the Empire could never defeat the mighty Black Army.\n\nIn p.c. 1083, southern Dragmolac was overrun by Yrg and the swarm was barely stopped by the Black Dragonguard. Sensing weakness, Imperial forces invaded in 1102. That conflict, called Ba'el's War was decisively won by Dragmolac, and the Dragonkin warrior Ba'el, who led the Draconic forces to victory became the Champion of Kromagonis.\n\n*Economy*\nThough Dragmolac is a small country compared to the Empire, its economic might is rivaled only by the Dragonlands. The main reason is the enchantment that Kromagonis cast on the land when he settled in, which resulted in the reinvigoration and healing of the accursed earth ravaged by the Calamity - at least to some degree. Mountains shifted and brought ore closer to the surface; fields became fertile again; rivers reappeared and rains fell once more; woods started to grow at the foot of the mountains. These created amazing new resources, which in turn created avenues of income and supplies for the country. As opposed to the mercantile Dragonlands, which is at peace with the Empire, Dragmolac engages in little to no trade, being almost completely self-sufficient in economic matters. That said, some Sadirar tribes and the ever-roaming Kal-rish do trade with the Black Ones.\n\n*Society*\nDragmolac is run by Kromagonis, the Black Dragonlord, mightiest and oldest of his kind, though being an elusive, mystical, god-like creature, he never appears outside his inner sanctum and works through proxies. Foremost of these is the Prince of Dragmolac, an elected member of the nobility and the commander-in-chief of the realm's armies. Kromagonis himself picks the Prince from prominent families and it is rumored that the spiritual connection between the Dragonlord and the prospect is what decides, though Dragmolac being a strict meritocracy, the future Prince has to distinguish himself in many ways to succeed. The Champion of Dragmolac is always a warrior who gets the title from defeating the previous Champion in ritual combat. Champions tend to retain their position for many years and are in effect the second-in-command of the armed forces, often leading the Dragonriders. And although nobles, prominent citizens, powerful sorcerers, and famed warriors have their say in government through the council of Kromagonis, Dragmolac is really run by only a couple of key persons.\n\nLife in the Dragmolac is believed to be difficult but fair, with no oppression from a ruthless empire. Yet it is far from a utopistic realm that many in the Empire believe. The strong rise but this often means no sympathy for the weak. Martial prowess is considered true strength and merit. Still, those who do not want to cheat the system or rise at the cost of the work of others will find that their efforts more than likely pay off in the long run.\n\n*Religion*\nThe Dragon Cult is the official religion of Dragmolac, though it is very different from most other religions of Xeryn. Its main tenets are that the strong and able shall rise and that everyone has the potential to become something better and greater. Worshipping Kromagonis is strictly forbidden, and so adherents of the Cult follow the Flame, a representation of potential, immortal souls, and Draconic magic at the same time. However, the personal cult of the Black Dragonlord is far greater than that of his brethren in the Dragonlands. There are no priests, though Dragonmages and their novices look after Cult shrines and can aid adherents in need. Small sacrifices to the Flame are common, as well as promises of persistence and requests of power, but no classical prayers to a God. Thus, the Cult is not a classical religion and is difficult to understand for most who are not raised by its tenets.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}]
The great city of Quathos was the largest settlement of the ancient Dwarven kingdom of Dvendar Tharr. Today it is a vast, smoldering ruin surrounded by broken mountains and rivers of lava thanks to the devastation brought on by the Calamity. Few souls linger here except for the few foolhardy seekers of ancient Dwarven treasures or the mad mutants that prey on them.\n\n*Description*\nPresent-day Quathos is a vast, sprawling ruin of walls, collapsed houses, shattered halls, and broken towers all made of stone in the typical Dwarven architectural style. It takes a great deal of expertise and luck to safely navigate the riven streets as earthquakes, lava bursts, and rockslides make each step potentially the last. The stocky, sharp buildings and monuments are surprisingly intact in the inner city, a testament to Dwarven craftsmanship. The western side of the city climbs the feet of the Mountains of Fire, while in the north and northeast the great lava flow of Fury's Whip besieges the ruins. The only way to safely access the remains of Quathos is over the Grim Plains in the south but it is far from safe due to the presence of marauding mutants.\n\n*History*\nQuathos was built during the Third Age when cooperation between the budding Empire and the kingdom of Dvendar Tharr became closer. The need for a Dwarven settlement that was easily accessible for other races rose quickly with the alliance and so the small town of Quathos was expanded over the next centuries to eventually become a major surface city - in fact, the only Dwarven city above ground. Quathos never lost its importance during the Third Age, and historical records indicate it has even been the capital city of Dvendar Tharr for a short while during the rule of a series of more open-minded Inventor Kings. Quathos was also a center of learning in regards to Dwarven architecture and engineering, something that the Empire made great use of during its Golden Age.\n\nThen the Calamity struck at the dawn of the Fourth Age and decimated the Dwarven kingdom. Quathos was mostly spared the volcanic devastation but the emerging earthquakes and the lava river of Fury's Whip made it so that the population fled the city and perished in the arcane storms that covered most of the new wasteland. Those that stayed often mutated into horrible beings, which has been known to be very rare for Dwarves elsewhere. Quathos became a place of living nightmare from a sanctuary in a matter of months and was soon completely abandoned. Looters came to the city in the following centuries and made sure that by present-day, most treasures have already been taken from the crumbling halls and dwellings, especially the valuable metal and ancient stone tablets covered in runes that the fallen race used to record their knowledge. Nobody dared try to reclaim Quathos, as the ruined city defies such attempts and now stands empty and perilous at the border of the molten kingdom of fabled Dvendar Tharr.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i}]
The Blackblood Mountains are one of the isolated mountain regions of the otherwise flat middle regions of the Empire. Formerly rich in obsidian, the range became prominent after the Orc War when its depleted mines were converted into a vast trading city.\n\n*Description*\nA mountain range of dark rock and tall heights, this region is essentially the continuation of the larger Sergorod’s Blade to the west, though the ridges of Blackblood Mountain are less sharp and blade-like. The two most important landmarks of the range are the great city of Tor’Zag’s Shelter with its topside fortresses lining the ridges and the obsidian mines on the north side. The mountains are a desolate, lifeless place where one only sees dark brown rocks and grey dust everywhere.\n\n*History*\nThe mountains are volcanic in origin, having risen from the plains when the Calamity struck, spewing forth lava that soon became obsidian, which in turn got buried in the seismic movements that followed. That obsidian, called the ‘black blood of the mountain’ has been used extensively by the Empire since its rise to power following the cataclysm. Obsidian mines are usually surface or open air mines (large holes or valleys with terraces, all scaffolded), using tens of thousands of slaves to work in brutal conditions. Although this type of mining has been perfected in and around the Blackblood Mountains, obsidian pockets were mostly depleted in the centuries following the Orc War and so quarries were mostly relocated to Sergorod's Blade to the west.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {reg1Rda3LgADM69c600A}]
Crystal is a mid-sized settlement of prospectors, crystal harvesters, and the people who guard their operation. Most of the dwellings and facilities are situated in underground tunnels and halls to be protected from the lethal heat and blinding light of the yellow /calerus/ right next to the town.\n\n*Description*\nLittle can be seen of Crystal on the surface except for some domes and holes next to the /calerus/, protected by a wide and tall palisade specifically tailored to shield the deadly light and heat. Down in the tunnels the air is bearably cool, and arches lead into halls and dwellings of citizens, as well as domed markets. Yet, no matter how similar Crystal is to Lumen, it is much smaller, and everything here reflects that. There is very little Imperial presence here, so people are more inclined to display more versatile lifestyles and cultures.\n\n*History*\nThe town of Crystal was built a few years ago to exploit the yellow /calerus/ next to it. It is pretty much the same as Lumen, except that Crystal is somewhat outside of Imperial jurisdiction. Some Trading Houses maintain a presence here, but the monopoly on harvesting crystal was bought long ago by the Septarius Association. It is rumored that Crystalmancers from Sargot Kala are behind this group, but it is so alien to Imperials that little is known of them. Yet they spared no expenses: they hired Dwarves for engineering, pay wages to workers diligently, command a small mercenary army to chase away illegal harvesting parties and bandits, as well as give a fair price to all buyers. All these made Crystal a well-off outpost, yet it is fairly remote and very new.\n\nThe crystal forest itself has thinner crystals than other caleri and has a yellowish base color with some blue crystal formations here and there. Even though the density of the crystals cause them to be less blinding than the blue caleri, their heat can still kill people during the day. Unfortunately for the Septarius Association, the flavo crystal harvested here is of lesser quality and has until now failed to attain a large market.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]\n[node {nodFoMB3LxA7Jd31f00D}]
The Orc War was a brutal conflict between the Orcs under the commands of their Warleaders and the Empire (as well as the Dragonlands after it got involved). It nearly broke the Empire and led to the downfall of the Orc race, which has not yet managed to leave behind its long-term effects.\n\nThe war started in p.c. 778, on the eve of the War of Fury, when the Orc Warleaders learned that the Twelve, the masters they fought for begrudgingly, have no plan for and no intention of returning the snatched-away souls of the warrior race to the Outer Realms where they belong. They sent a delegation to the Twelve to confirm this but the delegation was slaughtered. The Orcs then turned on the Empire, decimating the legions fighting in Viran, essentially saving that kingdom from collapsing.\n\nThe Orc armies turned south and decimated most garrisons and forts in the /Regnum Borealis/ by 779 except for Toht that withstood a long siege. The Orcs then swept through the Forlorn Waste and conquered Deven in 780. Two of the Twelve were killed by the forces of Dra’Skarr Skullcrasher during the siege, which shook even the Empire's most adherent supporters. Fighting then spilled into Hargad Tuul, the Free Cities, and the southern Searing Plains in the next few years. Dra’Skarr’s army destroyed most Imperial cities and garrisons in the west but was eventually decimated at the edge of the Searing Plains. In early 784, General Gibero - in command of the main Imperial army - was surrounded at Fort Larius with his three legions by Warleader Var’Resh's Orcs. The Senate sent General Hagir Vertius and his loyal two legions to relieve them. They never arrived, and their mysterious disappearance became one of the greatest mysteries of the Fourth Age. Fort Larius fell shortly afterward, opening the way south for the armies of the surviving Warleaders.\n\nThe Orc forces overran the Province in 785 and established a fortified base camp on the edge of Darkmoor. In 786 the Orcs started their arduous approach on the Gatelands but were suddenly attacked by the armies of the Dragonlords, who were begged to enter the conflict against the Orcs before they decimate the whole continent. The Draconic armies won decisive victories right away, and Warleader Tor’Zag withdrew with a small force into the mines of the Blackblood Mountains. The Orcs were soon utterly defeated at their camp in Darkmoor; at the same time, the rest of their main force was broken and scattered while attacking the Second Gate. About 25-30.000 surviving Orcs fled into the swamps, hoping to recuperate there. Against the protests of the Empire, the Dragonlords decided not to pursue them there, and many think that this was in an effort to keep a strong enemy on the Imperial doorstep for the future. Thus, the war ended in p.c. 787 after almost a decade of fighting.\n\nIn p.c. 798 Warleader Tor’Zag capitulated after 12 years of hiding in the fortified mines of the Blackblade Mountains. His followers were allowed to freely move to Darkmoor but Tor’Zag was reputedly assassinated on the way there by an Orc faction that considered him a traitor for reaching an agreement with the Twelve.\n\nOne of the most devastating military conflicts in living memory, the Orc War left the continent - especially the middle territories - in ruins and killed not only most of the original Orcs but also the very best of Imperial nobility. The Dragons and their subjects are forever looked upon as traitors and hypocrites by the Orcs, passing on the chance of breaking the Empire permanently and ending the tyranny of the Twelve. The whole of the warrior nation has become a broken, defeated, savage people who are forced to live in a forlorn swamp and sustain themselves by raiding and piracy.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW}]
The burned out ruins of the great stone fortress called Fort Larius still stand in the middle of Hargad Tuul, on the few hills that are in the middle of the zone.\n\n*Description*\nNot a single tower of the once mighty fortress stands these days. Larius used to be a mid-size fort, with five turrets, a tall curtain wall and a central tower at the eastern end. Its single gatehouse could be accessed via a slope and a drawbridge. Today, one can simply climb up to the toppled wall remnants as the ancient besiegers left earth ramparts that lead directly up the hillsides.\n\n*History*\nFort Larius was built during the great expansion following the Dragon Wars when Imperials realized the border region between the Province and the newly established Dragonlands needs fortification. During the Orc War, in early 784, General Gibero was surrounded at Fort Larius with three legions; Warleader Var’Resh lead the Orc army there. The Senate sent General Hagir Vertius and his loyal two legions to relieve the Gibero. They never arrived however, and their disappearance in Hargad Tuul became one of the greatest mysteries of the 4th Age. Fort Larius fell shortly under Orcish onslaught, opening the way south for their campaign.\n\nThe end of the war brought the abandonment of the fortress that soon fell into ruin - it was never reclaimed by the Empire. Today, nothing lives in and around the ruins but occasionally a stray outlaw group, liberated tribe, or mercenary company sets up their lair there, usually until an Imperial or Dragonguard patrol chases them away.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i} ]\n[node {nod651j3LdY1C69c6008}  ]
The infamous rock storms are considered anomalous activities because no natural wind could hurl or carry such an amount of debris nor at such a speed. Only occurring over the Jagged Waste, these storms appear out of the blue and the sharp dust motes they carry can easily eat the flesh off of the unlucky. Many a /comitatus/ has been obliterated thanks to these merciless storms.\n\n[tags {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx} {recdbVxBTES840oDS} ]
The chasm called the Wound is a 15 miles long cleft that runs between broken hills right next to the Dead Forest on its southern side. True to its name, the 100-200 yard deep ravine’s bottom glows with a crimson light and is covered with a blood-like liquid. The penetrating, horrid smell of a gangrenous wound permanently covers the whole area. No one has ever returned from the ill-fated ventures to the bottom of the pit. Abominable creatures born of the blood-like liquid wander the Wound's vicinity, sometimes attacking indiscriminately, other times not paying mind to passers by.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i} {recdbVxBTES840oDS}]\n\n[node {nodBkwe3LdUTy69c600V}]\n\n[DLC Prologue TMK]
Draka is the highest value Imperial coin in public use. Minted from gold, it is extremely rare and only the rich come into contact with it, especially since gold has become even rarer than usual in the metal-starved New Empire. Owning a Draka often means you can buy very valuable things, like a house, a lot of slaves, or metal equipment. On one of its sides is the Imperial crest (laurels around a two-headed eagle) and on the other is the visage of the Immortal Emperor.\n\nThe name Draka is derived from Dragma Kara, which means 'valuable quarter', referring to the fact that four Draka used to be worth one Lesta, the greatest value golden coin.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} ]
Bross is a small silver coin minted by the Empire and used extensively in both pre- and post-Calamity eras. The Imperial crest (laurels around a two-headed eagle) is on one side, while Mercatus (Saint of Commerce and Trade) is on the other. Bross is very valuable in the 4th Age, so most people see it very rarely and almost never own it - the exception are the rich and most merchants.\n\nBross Conrius was a man of the 3rd Age who was a close friend of the Saint Mercatus and worked for the Senate to simplify the system of many currencies that caused much chaos in his era. Originally called Denaris, the coin was renamed after Bross by the merchant guilds and it stuck with the populace.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} ]
Lyrg is the most commonly used minted coin in the Empire and in other realms of the continent of Xeryn. It is small, made of copper, and most people come into contact with it fairly regularly even though the poor see it less often. The Imperial crest (laurels and two-headed eagle) are on one side, while usually Senators or other aristocrats are on the other. The coin used to be called Lyragos after the common coin of old Daromar, the forgotten pre-Empire kingdom of humans, where it bore the name of a mighty king.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} ]
The Calamity is the single most important historical event of the Empire and given its far-reaching consequences in relation to divine beings, probably for the whole world. Best described as an arcane cataclysm of inconceivable proportions, this event demolished life and society on the continent of Xeryn in a matter of days. In the millennium that followed, the Riven Realms could not be healed and remain a scarred and disturbed place.\n\nTowards the very end of the Third Age, the Empire had fallen into stagnation and decadence. Desperately holding onto their power while trying to avert the collapse of their society, the rulers of the Empire took to measures that horrified the Elder Gods. In an attempt to quench the rebellions of faraway provinces, legions began to systematically wipe out thousands and thousands of the oppressed. This culminated in the genocide against the Virani people of the north. First, the Omens were sent but were largely disregarded. Eventually, the Gods could no longer tolerate such horrors done in their name and descended from their seat atop Mount Xyn. It is said that their anger was so great that they went mad, and in their madness, they toppled the Empire without regard to any living soul. They unleashed divine and arcane energies that raged for days, leveling cities, cursing regions, and even tearing holes in the fabric of reality so that terrible beings could enter at will.\n\nFinally, the Gods came to their senses but when they saw what they had done, they were broken in grief and left this reality, never to return. The Emperor managed to protect the capital and the Hearthlands from the worst of the devastation but he himself was thrust in a state of comatose stasis and has slumbered so ever since. The Apostles, his most trusted servants, were resurrected as deathless Lich lords who now took control of what was left and began to rebuild the Empire in their own image.\n\nThe post-Calamity era is characterized by arcane anomalies that remained behind the cataclysm and still hold peril for the continent's inhabitants. Mutation and curses are common as a lot of regions still suffer from what was done to them. Seasons do not exist anymore and most regions were so deeply affected by the cataclysm that the weather is harsh or outright inhospitable.\n\n[tags {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx} {recdbVxBTES840oDS} ]
The Empire is the largest and most populated country on the continent of Xeryn. It is made up of Provinces - tribute-paying regions overseen by a governor, with the Hearthlands as the center of the realm and Xeryn city as its capital. At its peak, the Empire ruled almost the whole continent and had pristine relations with the Elder Races that inhabited the rest of it. After the Calamity, during which most of Xeryn was utterly destroyed and scarred forever, the New Empire rose from the ashes and began a thousand-year-long march to vengeance and dominance.\n\n*History*\nThe Empire is the oldest and most lasting society created by humans. It was founded during the Third Age and flourished under the rule of a long line of Emperors. Its rise was guided by the Elder Gods, a pantheon of creator-deities. Imperials learned from the Dwarves and Elves the most, incorporating their technology and magic using their own inventiveness and open-mindedness. At its peak, the Empire was the greatest society in the world. This time came under the rule of the Immortal Emperor, who began his rule about a thousand years before the Calamity.\n\nThen the Calamity struck: the Elder Gods descended from the heavens and unleashed all hell upon Imperials, killing without mercy. Only a few distant lands survived unscathed but most of Xeryn was devastated by uncontrollable arcane energies. The Emperor personally protected the capital and the Hearthlands quite successfully but he himself was thrust into a comatose state and has been slumbering ever since. The Twelve, former high priests and now undead sorcerers, overtook rule in the Emperor's name.\n\nThe New Empire was thus rebuilt from the ashes. With a new pantheon of gods, undead legions, and a vengeful heart, Imperials set out to reclaim what used to be theirs. The next centuries were steeped in conflict and bloodshed but in the end, the Empire reclaimed most of its old territories and although its former glory was gone, it still remained one of the greatest powers of the world. A constant war is waged against the 'green continent' in the north to claim its riches, however, it has gotten to a stalemate.\n\n*Economy*\nPresent-day Empire does everything in its power to scrape everything it can from broken realms and dwindling natural resources. The Calamity destroyed much and cursed even more. Metal is so rare that most people use substitute materials instead - ivory, crystal, and obsidian are very popular and accessible. Lumber is also mostly unavailable.\n\nOften, provinces produce several unique products or materials and those have to be transported all around the continent. Thus, traveling traders are of key importance and mercantilism has been on the rise since the cataclysm. Much of the market is covered by the activities of Trading Houses - powerful guilds that hold a lot of power and monopolies.\n\n*Society*\nWhile the Emperor slumbers, the Twelve - immortal Liches - rule the Empire in his name. The Senate, made up of aristocrats and wealthy citizens, serves only as an advisory council, yet sometimes it can sway the rulers in ways unforeseen. Trading Houses and arcane orders also hold considerable power, while the Churches of the Triumvirate control the major aspects of everyday life, little more than puppets for the Twelve and the trio of dark gods.\n\nMost citizens eke out a living under a crushing rule and few people can afford to rest or luxuriate. Slavery is enforced by Imperial law, as it always has been. Most free citizens own slaves and successful businesses, as well as industries, rely on their toil to a great extent.\n\n*Religion*\nAfter the excommunication and disappearance of the Elder Gods in the wake of the Calamity, the Triumvirate emerged and offered their divine powers to help rebuild the Empire. Sergorod, God of Vengeance, Ahskul, God of Death, and Bal Ur Kaal, God of Treachery thus became the new pantheon of this fallen realm when the Twelve accepted their aid. A millennia after this, the Triumvirate is at its peak and most Imperial citizens worship them fervently - even if chiefly out of fear.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
One of the great landmarks of the Dragonlands, the Crimson Gate is a vast fortress and wall complex that guards the only traversable part of the country's southwestern natural borders. Overlooking the fabled Dragon Steps, the fort is maintained by the Red Dragon brood, as it is their duty to guard the gates of their homeland. Standing on the outer side of the Gate are the Dragon Steps, the largest set of stairs in the world, partly built from rock, partly carven out of the mountainside by a century of diligent and backbreaking work.\n\n*Description*\nThe Gate itself is an arc-shaped fortress made of dark stone that has a crimson tinge. The coloring is stronger when rays of the sun hit it, so much so in fact, that from a distance the wall and the fort look like a mountain covered in blood. A vast wall, many miles long in both directions from the Gate runs northwest and southeast and ends in smaller fortresses at the top of unclimbable cliffs. Huge Dragon statues line the wall and the Gate, looking down on travelers going through the arched, gigantic tunnel that connects to the two sides. Vast crimson banners fly from the battlements, mostly depicting dragons. The Gate can be closed: large iron doors with Dragonsteel reinforcements can be pushed by Drakes to block the archway, but only three times was this necessary in the history of the Dragonlands.\n\nThe Dragon Steps connect the artificial plateau in front of the Gate and the broken Jagged Waste below. The stairs are at least a mile wide at the bottom but much narrower near the top. Lanes to aid carts in ascending were also added, as well as small forts and watchtowers along the way. The structure is so huge that there are flat stops along its way for weary climbers. The gate is constantly guarded by a sizable contingent of Red Dragonguard and the Dragon Armies, while the skies above it and the surrounding region are patrolled by Dragonriders of the Red Dragonguard.\n\n*History*\nAfter the arrival of the Dragonlords to the forsaken continent in the wake of the Calamity, they settled down in the middle of the landmass and cast their ancient magic to an area large enough to comfortably sustain their nests. The Dragonlords shaped the highlands with their will, making the surrounding mountain ranges difficult to pass through, save for a few points of entry that are much easier to guard. The Crimson Gate is one of the entry points into Dragonlands, built by the Red and Bronze Dragon Lords - even though the Red one, Firrocraig took most of the credit. Ever since its creation, it has stood tall and threatening to the enemies of the Dragons, guarding one of the most frequented trade and travel routes into their obscure land. A special battalion of the Red Dragonguard is tasked with holding the Gate and its fortified walls, something they have been proudly and unerringly succeeding at for centuries; no enemy ever breached the Crimson Gate, not the Imperial Legions in the Dragon War, nor the Orcish invasion in the 8th century, nor any other - albeit smaller - incursions of late.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i} {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl}]\n[node {nodCSu83LdUmS69c600J}]
A large region of plains, Hargad Tuul (the 'Hollow Plain' in an ancient language) is protected from the hot winds and devastating dust storms of the north by the Windbelt and irrigated by rains and storms occasionally coming up from Maar Gorad and the Karginath sea in the southeast. For this reason, some vegetation managed to survive here even after the Calamity. Thus, brambles, bushes, turf, and grass grows in these plains here, giving a dark green tinge to the otherwise greyish fields. Still, Hargad Tuul is mostly uninhabited, as the earth does not support plants that are useful in food production - certainly not grains. It has thus remained a no-man's land throughout the Fourth Age.\n\nGreat battles were fought on Hargad Tuul during the Dragon War, and the Dragonguard still occasionally patrols the northeastern section. An old Imperial fortress, Fort Larius, stood proud in the middle of the plains but fell to ruin during the war against the Dragons. The Empire never really took the effort to reclaim the ruins, so outlaws and exiles sometimes take up residence there, typically until they annoy one of the powers and they wipe them out. Hargad Tuul was the site of one of history's great mysteries when during the Orc War the two loyal legions of General Hagir Vertius, sent to the fortress' ruins to relieve General Gibero's surrounded army, disappeared without a trace. They are believed to have fallen victim to some anomaly or arcane storm on the Hollow Plain yet no proof was ever found.\n\nThe Hollow Crags, a broken and ragged section of Hargad Tuul lies on its western border and is known by travelers as the haunt of the Hollow Eyes. Thus, nobody risks traveling through that region without a very good reason.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {reg9QeY3LePpq69c602N}]
This road runs north of and parallel to the Windbelt, a line of hills that separate Hargad Tuul from the Jagged Waste. It was built following /Dracis Pax/, and is maintained and even patrolled by the Dragonlands. The stone it is made of has a slightly rosy or red tinge. It is a frequented road, with most of the Empire-Dragonlands trading goods passing it one way or the other. Sometimes /vagri/ are attacked by outlaws hiding out in the Windbelt, but thanks to the diligent patrols, this is fairly rare. The only other difficulty is the contant, whipping wind and occasional windstorms coming from the north, from which the road's name is derived.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i} {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}]
Dragonguard are the elite soldiers of the Dragonlands equipped with the best equipment available and organized into a terrifying fighting force. Their duties include the guarding of the handful of ways into the country, escorting important people, as well as going on special assignments directed by their Dragonlord. At times of war, they spearhead the efforts of the Dragon Armies. The discipline and tenacity of the Dragonguard is legendary.\n\nDragonguards were created during the Dragon Wars when Dragon riders and elite warriors were put under separate command from the common soldiers. Ever since then, soldiers and warriors who are chosen to be invited into the Guard go through a lengthy, thorough, often cruel training to be forged into the best fighting force the continent has seen. This training includes learning how to use the Flame to enhance their Dragonsteel equipment with magic, be it flaming blades, lightning auras, magic resistance, or anything along these lines. For this reason, only those are picked to be recruited who have the affinity for this kind of magic.\n\nEach Dragonguard corresponds in coloring and magical Flame usage to its Dragon brood - the Red Dragonguard wears red armor and uses magical flame to imbue their weapons. These elite fighters are generally equipped with spears, shields, swords or axes for sidearms, and elaborate full plate armor forged of Dragonsteel, making them deadly opponents to mostly every other fighter on the continent. Additionally, the best Dragonguard warriors are trained to ride Drakes and become Dragonriders, effectively forming the airforce of their Dragonlord. The devastation brought by a squad of Dragonriders is dreaded by every other power on the continent.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3}]
The country called the Dragonlands is one of the most powerful realms on the continent of Xeryn. Although relatively small in size in comparison to the bloated Empire, its martial and sorcerous might is practically unmatched in the known world. Founded when seven demi-gods called Dragonlords descended onto the abandoned plains of the central continent after the Calamity accompanied by their vast Draconic broods, the Dragonlands rose to prominence quickly after it opened its doors to all who wanted to work and prosper.\n\n*History*\nSeven great Dragonlords formed the Dragonlands when they landed on the continent in p.c. 317 and used their immense magical powers to restore a region (the former provinces Enferak and Caor Mantis). The area is raised to form a spacious highland with protective natural boundaries.\n\nBy p.c. 450, the Dragonkin appear and the realm is filled with new settlers who abide by the laws of the Dragonlords: work hard and earn prosperity and security. As relations deteriorated between the newcomer Dragons and the Empire, tensions rose until the Dragon War broke out in p.c. 464 following an ultimatum by the Imperials: leave their former lands or be destroyed. The Dragonlords soon bounce back from initial setbacks and eradicate Imperial forces. Pedraghor (the Golden Dragonlord) leads an attack against the First Gate and dies due to the treachery of Azrethor, the White Dragonlord. The Golden Brood is subsequently destroyed and the White One moves his nest close to his new masters, the Twelve of Xeryn. An armistice is signed by the Empire and the Dragonlands but tensions remain for centuries to come. The foundation of Drak Ulthar follows, which is later named Angred (meaning ‘sanctuary’ in Draconic), and soon becomes the capital of the Dragonlands.\n\nStrife is renewed a mere ten years later when a war between the Empire and the solitary Black Dragonlord escalates. In the summer of 474 Pedraghor returns as a Dragon-Lich on the Imperial side and wreaks havoc but only manages to save the Empire from total annihilation. The Empire capitulates in 475 and the Dracis Pax is signed (except by Kromagonis) between the powers, which guarantees a long period of peace and cooperation. This bears fruit in the Orc War of p.c. 778 when the Empire begs the Dragonlords to enter the conflict. After they do, the Orcs are soon crushed and the grudge they bear for that defeat is still held to this day against people of the Dragonlands. Although relations with the Empire have remained strained until present day and the relationship with Dragmolac stayed cold at best, the Dragonlands held its place as one of the most powerful realms on the continent.\n\n*Economy*\nThough the Dragonlands is a small country compared to the Empire, its economic might is without equal on the continent. The main reason is the enchantment that the Dragonlords cast on the land when they arrived, which resulted not only in the creation of natural borders but also in the reinvigoration and healing of the accursed earth ravaged by the Calamity. Mountains shifted and brought ore closer to the surface; fields became fertile again; rivers reappeared and rains fell once more; woods started to grow at the foot of the mountains. These created amazing new resources, which in turn created avenues of income and supplies for the country. It is no wonder then that the Dragonlands engages in trade and that it protects its bounties fiercely. Certain goods, like timber, grain, or metals, are extremely rare everywhere but the Dragonlands.\n\n*Society*\nThe Dragonlands is run by the remaining five Dragonlords who settled there, though being elusive, mystical, god-like creatures, they rarely appear outside their inner sanctums and work through proxies called Voices, literally talking through them. The Voices form a council in the capital and exercise power through a parliament of sorts attached to it even though the word of the Voices is law. Nobles, generals, traders, mages, and even common folk are thus welcome to government and can have a say in matters, but the Dragonlords retain the ultimate power of decision, especially in important matters.\n\nLife in the Dragonlands is believed to be difficult but fair, with no oppression from a ruthless empire. Yet it is far from a utopistic realm that many in the Empire believe. The strong rise but this often means no sympathy for the weak. Martial prowess is often mistaken for strength and merit. Still, those who do not want to cheat the system or rise at the cost of the work of others will find that their efforts more than likely pay off in the long run.\n\n*Religion*\nThe Dragon Cult is the official religion of the Dragonlands, though it is very different from most other religions of Xeryn. Its main tenets are that the strong and able shall rise and that everyone has the potential to become something better and greater. Worshipping the Dragonlords is strictly forbidden, and so adherents of the Cult follow the Flame, a representation of potential, immortal souls, and Draconic magic at the same time. There are no priests, though Dragonmages and their novices look after Cult shrines and can aid adherents in need. Small sacrifices to the Flame are common, as well as promises of persistence and requests of power, but no classical prayers to a God. Thus, the Cult is not a classical religion and is difficult to understand for most who are not raised by its tenets.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}]
The race of Dragonkin are the result of the mixing of humans with Draconic blood. Thus, they bear both humanoid and Dragon-like features and abilities, though the ratio of these sides vary greatly.\n\n*Appearance*\nThough mostly human in appearance, all Dragonkin inherited one or more of the Draconic physical attributes and retain them throughout their bloodlines. Such features include scales (on parts or the whole of the body), horns, fangs and claws, reptile eyes, tails, and even wings (though very rarely). Magical powers are also known to be passed on, including magical senses, Dragon Breath, and sorcerous powers. Each Dragonkin shares the coloring and special abilities of their brood.\n\n*History*\nDragonkin as a race started when the Dragonlords and their broods arrived in Xeryn centuries after the Calamity and mingled with surviving humans using humanoid forms of their own. The crossbreeds were Draconic to various degrees and became steadfast subjects of the Dragonlords. The most ancient of these bloodlines are known to be the closest allies and servants of the mighty Dragonlords, but in the present day, Dragonkin are more widespread due to them being able to produce offspring both with humans and other Dragonkin.\n\n*Culture*\nOf the physical and magical Draconic traits running through bloodlines, the Dragon Cult sees magical powers as more desirable. This, coupled with the fact that an overabundance of Draconic physical traits usually produce lower intelligence of the individual, resulted in the general notion that the less a Dragonkin looks Draconic, the more ‘pureblood’ they are. A lot of purebloods are very skilled at Dragon magic. Purebloods are often elevated to higher positions due to their lineage in stark contrast with the tenet of the Dragon Cult that calls for merit and ability in the measuring of individuals and societies.\n\nThough most Dragonkin live in the Dragonlands (where the five allied Dragonlords reside) or in Dragmolac (where the Black Dragonlord Kromagonis nests), many are known to be travelling around Xeryn or are settled in other regions. Most of them are still connected to serving their Dragonlord in one capacity or another.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recdbVxBTES840oDS} {recXmsgpnwrAzhCmF}]\n
The best quality metal in the known world, Dragonsteel was forged in Dragon fire, which makes it especially sturdy but adequately flexible. A widespread misconception is that the steel has innate magical abilities and properties enhanced by magic because it is mined in the enchanted Dragonlands. This, however, is not true - the ore that Dragonsteel is derived from indeed originates from the Dragonlands, but apart from it being exceptionally pure and good quality, there is nothing special about it.\n\nThe magical properties come from the forging of the steel, which is done partly in Dragon fire and in concert with the sophisticated and advanced metallurgical techniques of the Dragonlands, this produces a metal of the best quality that is additionally imbued with the magic of the Dragons. However, common wielders of Dragonsteel weapons or wearers of Dragonsteel armor can not tap into these arcane powers - only trained individuals with their own Draconic Flame awakened can use the enchantments in the steel. Typically, this means Dragonguard soldiers and Dragonmages, who bear Dragonsteel equipment and use their enchantments as conduits for their own magic. This produces the iconic flaming swords and magically enchanted armor these elite combatants of the Dragonlands are famous for. Still, even without the magic, there is no other metal that can live up to Dragonsteel, and thus even a small piece is worth a fortune. Thanks to this and the special forging required, the metal is very rare and is outlawed for non-Dragonlands citizens around most of the Empire.\n\n[tags {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx}  {recLF3Dyip1e2Q7RU}]
Ifreanni are bipedal, scale-covered carnivores of Draconic origin that are often captured and broken into being mounts, albeit fairly belligerent and bad-tempered ones. However, their incredible running speed and combat skill still makes them sought-after around the Empire.\n\n*Appearance*\nAdult Ifreanni are muscular creatures that stand 5 feet tall, and have long straight tails, long forward limbs, and an elongated maw with sharp teeth that bears a close resemblance to other Dragonkin. Their scale coloration matches that of their Draconic brood and rare specimen have colorful feather lines; horns and bone thorns are much more common. Ifreanni can use their muscular tail, bites, and powerful, clawed hind legs in combat.\n\n*Behavior*\nIfreanni live in packs led by the most powerful female. They are carnivorous predators and their hunting relies on sophisticated tactics as well as lightning fast movement. Ifreanni are known to be able to run at terrible speeds and are especially good at acceleration and sprinting. They are hard to train and notoriously vicious, but are smart and great travel or combat mounts in turn. However, Ifreanni are not really built to carry heavy weight for extended periods of time. Because they are cold-blooded, these large lizards become morose and eventually apathetic in colder climates but can operate even in the hottest of environments without an issue. Some rare specimen can channel the power of their Draconic bloodline and use breath attacks and even Dragon roars.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x}]
One of the largest stone forests of the Jagged Waste, Arkoros is a typical cluster of many thousand stone spires with pointed ends that were once carved out by magical winds during and after the Calamity.\n\n*Description*\nThis stone forest is similar to others in the region (like Stonethorn or the Orcscar) - it is comprised of thousands upon thousands of standing, jagged stone spires, which now make up an orange-brown labyrinth of rock and sand. Because of the height of the great stones, one can often find respite from the sun's scorching light, and this is something that a lot of dangerous creatures appreciate as well. Unfortunately, the constant wind and windstorms from the Jagged Waste to the east carry so much dust towards the Arkoros Forest that living is made very difficult for people in the area, and locals are used to battling the dust and sand piles leaning on their dwellings every day.\n\n*History*\nArkoros Forest has been vastly changed - compared to other such 'forests' by the seismic activity of the Calamity into a more interesting place - at least economically: marble can be found in great quantities and of good quality under its rocky surface, along with other valuable stone. The discovery of this bountiful boon of the Gods soon turned the eastern side of the Forest into an industrial area where the stone is quarried, cut, and sent with great /comitati/ and armies of slaves to places where they are used. Some of it is carved into statues and monuments here before carefully taken to their destination. The white marble of the highest quality from Arken is worth a veritable fortune and only the richest Imperial citizens can afford it.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regkuUg3LgA7U69c6002}]
The bones of dragons are not only potent spell components but also amazing materials for tools and weapons, as they are lighter than metal but just as sturdy. For this reason, many seek Dragonbone so that it can be worked into arms or armor pieces, even though the Dragonlords' kin shun such display of their dead. The other use of the bone - that of magical components - is also widely known though considerably less seen in practice. Still, wizards pay a good sum for shipments of Dragonbone, which remains imbued with the creatures' innate magical properties for ages. Indeed, Dragonbone becomes brittle only after centuries and experts claim that the much rarer bone of higher Draconic beings remains active and pristine practically forever.\n\nDragonbone is considered contraband by the Imperial authorities mainly because they cannot control its trade or monopolize it in any way. Yet it can still be sold to the Dragonlands despite their dislike of such wares - they consider this as a form of honoring the dead.\n\n[tags {recdbVxBTES840oDS}]
This is a 'forest' of stone pillars and rock formations named Terathion's Fall after the legendary black Dragon that fell out of the sky above it and got itself impaled on the spikes.\n\n*Description*\nThousands upon thousands of standing, pointed stone spires or pillars of varying sizes were carved by arcane winds during the Calamity and now make up a dark brown maze of rock and gullies.\n\n*History*\nTerathion’s Fall got its name during the Orc War. Terathion was famous for hunting and destroying Orcs, a great Black Dragon who rebelled against his master and lord Kromagonis and joined the war to fight alongside his other kin. His fierce and relentless attacks eventually led him to these stone formations where the Orc warrior Drok’Var managed to slay Terathion by making him fall onto the giant stone spikes. Little is it known that Drok’Var only prevailed because the Dragon’s Imperial allies helped him get on the back of Terathion unnoticed. This was towards the end of the war, and the Imperials feared that after the Orcs, Terathion’s rage would turn on them, so they decided to strike the first blow. Though the mighty Dragon’s corpse was impaled there for decades, eventually, a group of Black Dragons reclaimed it and took it back to Dragmolac for burial. This does not prevent reckless treasure hunters and scavengers to enter the place and fight a veritable war from time to time for valuable Dragonbone that is supposed to be lying about still.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i} {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}]
This valley is a long and wide depression that separates Arkoros Forest from the North Calerus. It is fairly difficult to travel across, providing hiding places for outlaws and illegal crystal harvesters, while it is much easier to travel along its length. Several large side-valleys and ravines snake away from the wide main valley, and these can be navigated to reach either side more easily. Although most animals shun the place, sometimes crystal creatures wander into the valley and can not find their way back into the /calerus/. Otherwise, one might encounter vagabonds who took a shortcut between the crystal and the stone forest either out of bravery or stupidity.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regvjrx3LxB1ad31f002}]
One of the most notorious creatures of the wastelands, Scortaur are half-men, half-scorpion mutants created by the Calamity's corrupted magic. Having devolved into savage tribal predators, these xenophobic beasts mercilessly hunt all other beings in and around their territory.\n\n*Appearance*\nScortaur have a humanoid torso that is attached to a 12 feet long black scorpion body, making it look like the scorpion part was grown out of the humanoid's waist. The scorpion part has both pincers and the stinger, the latter of which produces very potent, paralyzing poison. Scortaur are known to coat their weapons with the same poison. The humanoid part is usually repulsive to all other species. Although faintly human in looks, their ritual self-mutilation, spreading mutations, and aggressive nature make Scortaur look savage and scary at best, insane and terrifying at worst. They constantly carry wargear and are often clad in others' skin and bones.\n\n*Behavior*\nBarely more intelligent than animals, Scortaur have a violent society in and around Madrigos’s ruins on the Plains of Bone. They hunt and kill everyone who is not their kind and prepare skin-clothing and bone-decorations from their remains. Mutilation (both of themselves or of their prey) and torture are the creatures favorite pastimes, and people often kill themselves rather than be captured by Scortaur. When times are tough, the beasts are said to turn to cannibalism and constantly fight among themselves. The creatures use simplistic tools and weapons primarily made of bone or obsidian. The most intelligent or most violent specimen become leaders that take raiding parties to pillage and murder around the areas surrounding the Plains of Bone. Scortaur are known as vermin, but due to their extremely fast reproduction cycle and cannibalism, it is nigh impossible to wipe them out completely. Those who tried usually ended up as the creatures' captives by the hundreds and irked the Scortaur so much that whole murderous crusades were launched in retaliation of their efforts. In turn, Scortaur never seem to be able to settle in any other area for long, though not for the lack of trying, as raiding parties can be found as far as the Forlorn Waste in the north and even the Red Wind Reach in the south.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x}]
The Windbelt is a wide cluster of high hills that expand westwards from the southwestern end of the Dragonlands and eventually fade into arid wasteland just east of Tor'Zag's Shelter. The region forms the northern border of Hargad Tuul, blocking off the ferocious winds of the Jagged Waste beyond, which makes it possible for plantlife to thrive compared to neighbouring plains.\n\n*Description*\nThe hills that make up the Windbelt are not much to look at. Lighter brown heights are broken up by darker ravines, sometimes with throny bushes and yellowed grass growing on the southern slopes - the ones that are free of the constantly beating north winds coming off of the Jagged Waste. Travelers claim that there are a number of cave systems reachable through cracks and crevices at the bottom of the hills. The weather is almost always sunny here and the wind is bearable among the hills.\n\n*History*\nThe Windbelt is the reason that the Hargad Tuul to the south is more habitable than the Jagged Waste in the north but whether this is the result of the awe-inspiring magic that the Dragonlords used to enchant and raise the Dragonlands, or just a lucky coincidence, nobody knows. Considered a border between regions and lined on the north by the Windway, the road that connects the Empire with the Dragonlands, the hills are abandoned for the most part, except for the occasional bandits who find shelter among the ravines. Although the frequented road's close proximity promises good prospects to outlaws, the occasional Dragonrider patrol represents a risk most bandits would not take.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regpqzh3LgA9S69c6005}]
Dust Moaners are large, quadrupedal mammals with thick fur and trunk-like legs. They are among the few large mammals that have survived the Calamity and managed to adapt to the hot, arid wastelands of the continent.\n\n*Appearance*\nThese great mammals have four trunk-like legs with hooves and a hunched back. Adults stand over 7 feet tall and their large, round head almost reaches the ground. Perhaps the most characteristic feature of Dust Moaners is their shaggy, thick, greyish fur, which is surprisingly protective against attacks - and reeks fiercely. \n\n*Behavior*\nMost Dust Moaners can be found on the Jagged Waste but sometimes they wander into other regions, such as parts of the Dragonlands or the Province to the south. Their name comes from a characteristic moaning sound they use to signal the herd and communicate with each other. Although not solemn by design, to mortal ears it sounds like a sad, pleading dirge. Herds are anywhere between 10-20 and hundreds of specimens. A typical family of Dust Moaners produces half a dozen offspring every two years. Being herbivores that dig for roots and eat briars, these creatures rarely attack anyone but since they are not good runners, they usually meet dangers head-on. Males with their armor-like fur and amazing weight can trample and crush most predators. Though somewhat tough to domesticate, Dust Moaners are often being herded by nomads who live off their meat and milk, while selling shorn furs to outposts and settlements.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x}]
Arcane storms are a lethal phenomenon native to the post-Calamity continent of Xeryn, being one of the many persistent effects manifested by the magical fallout of that terrible catastrophe, yet probably the best known of all of these. The storms do not obey the laws of nature, and can emerge in a matter of minutes, without any kind of warning, though some areas are more prone to them appearing than others, and certain individuals are known to be able to predict arcane storms with fair accuracy.\n\nArcane storms are unlike change storms in that they do not affect victims with seemingly random magical effects. Instead, these are storms of utter destruction brought on by the raw, uncontrolled magical energies that swirl in them. They were known to have destroyed parts of large cities and only the combined efforts of powerful mages could shield the rest and save the day. After striking an area, they can just as easily dissipate or continue on for weeks on end - there is no rhyme or reason to its workings. Mages and scholars have made numerous attempts at researching arcane storms but apart from developing some equipment that can predict storms with varied accuracy, no real breakthrough has happened and most wise men consider the phenomenon completely random.\n\n[tags {recdbVxBTES840oDS} {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx}]
Krawags are a beastial Draconic sub-species bred to be hunter-killers, pointers, and guards by the mighty lords of the Dragonlands.\n\n*Appearance*\nThese ferocious giant lizards are approximately 12 feet long and 5 feet high by the time they reach adult age, and they walk on four long legs. The front legs of Krawags can be used as hands, but they do not do so often, and when on all fours, the lizards are capable of running at terrible speeds. The creatures are covered in tough scales that matche their Dragon brood origins. An elongated, often horned head strengthens the Draconic look along with the muscular tail. Yet because Krawags have no wings, many people consider them more akin to giant lizards than Dragons - an often fatal mistake.\n\n*Behavior*\nKrawags possess fantastic senses, including amazing hearing, an acute sense of smell, and heat vision. Their devastating breath attack matches the chromatic nature of their Draconic origin (for example, Red Krawags breathe magical fire, while Blue Krawags breathe lightning strikes). Their intelligence is that of very clever animals, which can be further enhanced by Dragons and even by Dragonguard soldiers with the right command skills and Krawag training. The creatures can adapt to any climate except for the harshest cold, unless they are from the white or blue broods. Unfortunately, Krawags tend to be headstrong and difficult to control, and are sometimes known to go mad, shunning or even attacking their former masters and go living a solitary, violent life out in the wastelands. When attached to Dragon army patrols or the Dragonguard, Krawags are sent out to sniff out and hunt down trespassers and enemies of the Dragonlands.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x}]
Slerads are large, quadrupedal reptiles originally hailing from the deserts of the east. They are widely used as cargo hauling beasts of burden in contemporary Xeryn despite their huge appetite and dangerous bulk.\n\n*Appearance*\nStanding over 10 feet tall and weighing over 9000 pounds, adult Slerads are gigantic beasts, able to haul a lot of cargo. Their scales vary from yellowish to greenish in color but some rarer broods are brown or even gray. They have two huge, reddish, reptilian eyes and a decidedly frog-like, wide mouth lined with fine, small, pointy teeth. Slerads have a long tail and four strong legs yet they can not reach running speed even if threatened. However, their thick, armored hides and size guarantees their safety most of the time.\n\n*Behavior*\nSlerads are dim-witted and cantankerous, usually slow to react to stimuli but are still easier to handle than many other beasts of the waste. Fortunately, they do not realize how their size and weight could be used to crush the pesky humanoids who use them as burden-bearing animals. Unfortunately, they do not realize if someone is underfoot, either, which leads to many accidents. Slerads females lay 3-5 eggs twice a year but most of them are stolen by clever, small predators from the dumb giant lizards and never even hatch - except in the hatcheries of Trading Houses for whom the breeding of the trusty Slerads is of great importance if costly, as the lizards eat a lot. Their diet includes fruit, vegetables, and sometimes insects. The laziness of Slerads is well-known, so much so in fact that many Imperial and Tarkian proverbs liken them to dull or stupid people.\n\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x}]
Demonkin is a general name for the many changed beings that have demonic blood in their veins, but it is specifically used - in the context of Xeryn - for those that are less than half-demon, that is, those who have demonic ancestry in their grandparents or earlier.\n\n*Appearance*\nDemonic blood typically manifests as an aura of uneasiness that surrounds the Demonkin, as well as in physical - and sometimes sorcerous - traits borne by the person. Each type of demon produces a set of traits in its Demonkin typical to its own form and abilities. Thus a Morgai Demonkin would either have fangs, heat vision, the ability to fly or turn into smoke, enhanced strength or agility, or any number of these, just like a Morgai demon itself.\n\n*History*\nDemons typically mingle with humankind, while some other races, such as the Dwarves or Elves do not have Demonkin (or at least nobody has reported one yet). Oghres have been known to be able to mix with Demonkind similarly to humans. Demonkin came to be fairly common on the continent after the Calamity, as the released arcane energies disrupted and broke the barriers between the Outer Realms and Xeryn, allowing denizens of the planes to enter and thrive in the Riven Realms. Most people can’t really tell them apart from the many other strange creatures that roam the continent these days.\n\n*Culture*\nDemonkin do not have a culture or realm of their own, living among other races typically - most frequently among humans. The Empire has been known to make use of their unique abilities, and the demonic cult of Bal Ur Kaal (and especially the Nosferatis Sisterhood) has drawn many of them into their fold. Still, most of them are very independent and wish to be their own masters. Most of the Demonkin on the continent do not have an agenda in concert with that of the Legion, yet some may be agents of that ominous power.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recdbVxBTES840oDS} ]
Bal Ur Kaal is the Demon God of Charm, Intrigue, and Deception; a member of the Triumvirate. Often called a ‘Demon Prince’, the elusive god’s followers like to think that their faith has permeated all of Imperial society; and perhaps they are not far from the truth. Bal Ur Kaal is very obscure, yet strangely approachable in worship. The Church of Bal Ur Kaal’s duties are much less pronounced than that of the other gods. These include spying for the Empire, running clean brothels and other establishments of carnal pleasures, mediating negotiations, and much more. People who want to hide lies or persuade someone often call upon the Prince of Charm. No wonder that lawyers, criminals, and opportunistic people are found in abundance in his following.\n\nAccording to legend, Bal Ur Kaal found the Twelve just after the Calamity and guided Ahskul and Sergorod to them as well. The former Apostles listened to his advice and accepted the unholy trio's help, believing the Demon God's promises of power, revenge, and the resurrection of the Empire. It is the Demon Prince whose Church looks after the desires and needs of the citizens and plants agents to spy on enemies. Also called the Lord of Enchantment, Bal Ur Kaal provides magical abilities to his most devoted followers who can afflict others with mind-bending charms and even change their appearance when it suits them. It is also known that priests of Bal Ur Kaal can glean motives and lie masterfully, which is why they can infiltrate almost any society or group.\n\nBal Ur Kaal is seldom depicted but when he is, he is shown to be a robed and hooded person in a mask, with a dagger behind his back in one hand. There are more alluring, sometimes even pornographic depictions but all of them are androgynous to some extent. Bal Ur Kaal's priests dress lavishly and appear beautiful when out in public; yet they often wear disguises suitable to the task at hand.\n\nBal Ur Kaal is closely tied to two of the Fulcimus Imperium: the Nosferatis Sisterhood and the Ater Manis. Many say that he is so influential that beneath the surface, his followers have already infiltrated most if not all Imperial guilds, institutions, holy orders perhaps with the exception of Ordis Negras Solis. Many powerful people see the Demon Prince's puppeteer hands behind the Senate's decisions.\n\n[tags {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
House Venari is one of the most powerful Trading Houses of the Empire, founded during the Restoration Era. It owns vast tracts of land and has rights as well as wealth that rival Churches or smaller countries. Its symbol is the Manticore, derived from the ancient crest of the Venarius family.\n\n*History*\nThe noble family Venarius was one of the great aristocratic lineages of the Third Age, having taken an active role in the Senate generation after generation, always striving for the betterment of the Empire and the lives of its citizens. Legends say that Cladius Venarius Pertinax, the founder of the line who fought alongside Aetreus, defeated a Manticore in single combat and adopted the creature's image as the crest of his noble family.\n\nUnfortunately for the Venarius family, they were too outspoken against the Emperor's cold distance from public matters and fell out of grace, holding onto a fraction of their former power by the end of the Third Age. However, what the sycophants of the regime could not take away, the Calamity destroyed almost utterly. Barely anything remained of the Venarius line and surviving descendants gambled away their heritage in the early centuries of the Fourth Age, eventually losing their noble status. Additionally, the Apostles remembered the defiance of the family well in their undeath, and did not allow them to regain their titles.\n\nThe last of their line, Arcturus Venarius however, was not a man to lie down in defeat. Repulsed by the despicable fate of his elders and aided by an iron will, he took advantage of the opportunities provided by the Restoration Era. Through manipulation, negotiation, threats, and even assassination, he managed to build a formidable Trading House, get his hands on monopolies, bribe Senators, and marry into the wealthy Scubvio merchant family. His descendants built upon these foundations, assimilated smaller merchant unions, and thus House Venari rose to become one of the most powerful Trading Houses of the Empire.\n\n*Structure and Activity*\nHouse Venari is run by a council whose members are called 'Aculeus Dominus' (or 'stinger lords' referring to the Manticore's poison stinger). The heads of each outpost and headquarters are responsible for their branch of the business and report to the council through feared retainers called 'claws' who have great authority. The greatest assets of the Venari are the oil fields north of Kabur and the mushroom plantations in the northern and middle realms but they have an interest in almost everything that can be traded. They are constantly threatened by House Darius on the slave markets and Trading Houses from the Dragonlands when it comes to metal and wood trading. It is rumored that the Venari have a long-standing good relationship with the assassins of Ater Manis who give them better prices for high-valued targets. 'Even in defeat, the Manticore can kill with its poison' is the motto of the Venari, referring to the time when they were thought defeated and rose still, decimating their enemies.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]
Trade Houses are millennium-old institutions, essentially merchant guilds that wield a great deal of influence. Houses have their own traditions, hosts of loyal retainers and agents, lobbyists in the Senate, outposts around the continent, and even mercenary armies. Typically, each great Trading House has one or more monopolies but the scene tends to shift radically from year to year.\n\nContemporary Xeryn is characterized by many isolated settlements divided by vast and perilous lands. This is one of the main reasons why mercantilism rose to utmost importance: trade and communication would be virtually impossible without the involvement of /comitati/, armed caravans that traverse the wasteland. It did not take long before the merchants started to flock together to protect their interests. Trading Houses represent the pinnacle of merchant organizations. Most often, they are run by a council of merchants, a family of aristocrats, or some other interest group. Successful /vagri/ can hope to join these Trading Houses, gaining their benefits and protection along with the obligation to pay a considerable tribute and abide their internal code of conduct that governs most aspects of trade.\n\nThough typically an Imperial institution, a Trading House can belong to almost any culture these days, and many historians claim that the first ones ever were created by merchants from Tark.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]
Traditional resources of food became scarce after the Calamity. Soon, new means of nourishment became common, ones that did not rely on dead fields of the inhospitable surface. Fungi cultivated underground rose to popularity, although their production was quickly monopolized by the New Empire and the larger trading houses.\n\nGhost Mushrooms - or /Fungos Tenuem/ as the Imperial language labels them - are a prime example. Easy to grow yet quite nutritious, these tall and fibrillar domes thrive exclusively in the dark of Xeryn's hidden grottoes below the surface and emit a spectral, blueish-white light - hence the name. Various trading houses have established farming outposts dedicated to harvesting these precious fields of aliment.\n\n[tags {recE8cOwqRIX770Fm}]
Centurions are officers in Imperial Armies. Originally, a Centurion led one company (of about 90-100 men) but that role changed much later on and now they can lead groups ranging from companies to cohorts. Some of them fill in other important roles in a legion. Veteran Centurions could count on a life of relative wealth thanks to their service to the Empire but many went on serving in political offices.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
The Abolitionist Movement (or in short 'Abolitionists') is a secret society that is built on the belief that everybody has the right to liberty and thus works on the abolishing of the institution of slavery in the Empire.\n\n*History*\nSlavery was a major facet of Imperial life even before the Calamity and towards the end of the Golden Age era the social dynamic surrounding it gave rise to the Abolitionist Movement - then a legally sound political movement with Senators openly supporting it. Before they could gain traction, however, the tumultuous decades before the Calamity robbed them of many of their supporters. In the Fourth Age, the Twelve have outlawed anti-slavery and thus abolitionism, on the pretext of divine mandate: since the Immortal Emperor's mandate to rule is divine, his people (citizens of the Empire) also share in his divinity and are thus superior to most other races and cultures. Ever since then, the persecution of Abolitionists and merciless hunts for escaped slaves have been widespread in the Empire. In these, the Church of Sergorod and the Order of the Black Sun are chiefly involved.\n\nThe movement is strongest in the outlying provinces where the most difficult and dangerous labor is delegated to slaves and where therefore slaves are the least content with their fate. Tark especially, where a lot of the populace feels they are themselves slaves in effect if not in name, is the hotbed of anti-slavery movements - to the great dismay of the Twelve. The mines and work camps in the mid-regions were also the sites of great slave revolts in the past where the Abolitionists are thought to have been at work. The movement is said to have been behind the successful revolt of p.c. 929 when the slaves were escorted to the Dragonlands and were thus liberated, though this may only be propaganda.\n\n*Structure and Activity*\nThough the movement has a strong presence in most cities, it is very far from being united; due to the brutal hunt for Abolitionists, most cells do not and can not communicate, so they end up working independently. Most of the time, supporters or members of the movement are perfectly happy with aiding the escape of a few slaves into the wastelands where cruel death or banditry awaits the unfortunates while the liberators delude themselves with lofty ideals of altruism in their cozy villas. Every now and then a large revolt breaks out and is inevitably decimated. Countries like Dajmaha and the northern sea islands are typical destinations where the most fortunate escaped slaves can end up. Tarkian pirates and benevolent nobles are the greatest supporters of the cause. Most citizens of the Empire could not care less about liberties but also do not typically torment their slaves.\n\n[tags {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
Jhakras are the vermin of the wastelands. Bad-tempered and aggressive pack-hunters, they have plagued the Riven Realms since the Calamity.\n\n*Appearance*\nJhakras are four-legged reptiles covered by hardened, yellow-brown, grown-together scales that cover their backs like armor. Adult specimens are 3-4 feet high at maximum and are between 1.5 and 2 yards long. They have thick, powerful, short legs that can propel them forward quite fast but make it difficult to maneuver. Jhakra heads have thick scale-plates and males sport about half a dozen thorn-shaped horns to maul and tackle with.\n\n*Behavior*\nJhakras are very stubborn creatures that hunt in packs and don’t know when to give up. Once they tear into prey they do not let go until killed or killing. They are omnivores but have a taste for flesh, so they often take on larger prey in groups. Jhakras live in hot, arid places like the continent’s central deserts but are quick to adapt to other environments, except very cold ones.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x}]
A /medicos/ is a professional healer or doctor. Their licence usually comes from medical schools or from a senior medicos who takes students. Medicos are adept at using herbs, tinctures, potions, and other natural curatives but they are also scholars as they study medicine and physiology for many years. Magical healing is beyond the scope of a medicos. Their services are rarely cheap but are often sought after.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]
Tanat was the Elder God of the Underworld who looked after the souls of the dead. According to ancient lore, Tanat was the chieftain of a clan of gods called the Tanatians and became a grim deity after accepting the task of overseeing the dead from Xyn, King of the Elder Gods in a joint effort to stabilize the chaos of Creation. Thus, he became the ruler of Tartaris, the Underworld - a dark and foreboding place. Tanat was a well-respected and fervently worshipped if obscure God in ancient times but descended upon the Empire during the Calamity, after which he left this reality along with the rest of the Elder Gods. Ahskul, a former resident of Tartaris, overtook Tanat's duties and powers after the Calamity.\n\n[tags {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]
Tartaris is the Imperial name for the Underworld. In ancient times, Imperials believed that when someone dies, their soul goes to Tartaris where it is judged by Tanat, God of Death and Keeper of the Underworld. Unfortunately, the realm of the dead became a prison for many beings unwanted by the Elder Gods, with the first Demons among them. Thus, lower Tartaris has formed into a bottomless chasm called the Abyss, where these terrible things are chained. When the Elder Gods disappeared after the Calamity, the Demons occupied much of the Abyss. Unsupervised and out of control, they started attacking worlds and made plans to free their progenitors. Ahskul, the new God of Death, took over Tartaris and has looked after the souls of the dead ever since. Tartaris is a grim and foreboding place that few planeswalkers see and live to tell tales about.\n\n[tags {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]
The Plains of Bone is a rocky desert region of grey and beige sands and large piles of bones south of the Jagged Waste and southeast of the Searing Plains. Many creatures of the surrounding regions come here to die, so the place has a morbid look and reputation.\n\n*Description*\nCovered with small rocks and pebbles, the desert called the Plains of Bone is an abandoned, empty, grim place where the light grey colored sand goes on forever. The air is very dry and the wind rarely blows. The stench of rot is pervasive and never seems to go away. Because the place draws dying beasts here for some reason ever since the Calamity, a vast number of bone piles form natural sepulchers all over the Plains. All these bones have been accumulating for hundreds of years, the innate curse of the region slows down their degradation to a point where one can find hundreds of years old bones still intact out in the open.\n\n*History*\nWhen the Calamity struck the lands around the great Imperial city of Madrigos, only a dry, washed-out desert remained in place of the rolling plains and gentle hills there. The city itself was abandoned and following the chaotic first century post-Calamity, the Scortaur appeared in and around Madrigos. These despicable, savage, man-scorpion mutants renamed the place to Scorponar and began their reign of terror over the Plains. They use the bone and ivory of the plains to craft weapons and tools and have proven impossible to exterminate.\n\nThe Plains of Bone is a veritable graveyard of creatures both large and small. Often, very old dragons come here to die, too, and challenge anyone they find there so that they would fall in battle. Those who dare risk entering can come back with a lot of valuable bone and ivory, but only if they do not run afoul of the Scortaur or some dying monstrosity. Such prospecting is frowned upon by the authorities in general, as it was proven it provokes the ire of the man-scorpions who in turn raid nearby realms.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {reg4Xov3LeQS369c602R}]
/Lanistas/ are owners and trainers of gladiators but in the Fourth Age, the term is specifically used for people who become professional gladiator managers. Most of them are not of noble birth as aristocrats rarely need to engage in the career of a /lanista/ in spite of often owning gladiators. Instead, they hire /lanistas/ to handle their stock; however, most gladiator managers strive to remain independent. They typically own anywhere between one and dozens of gladiators. Successful /lanistas/ are famous people who travel around at least a province and participate in seasonal and ad hoc arena games, which are considered one of the most popular forms of entertainment in urban areas. With this wealth and fame come great risks, however, as /lanistas/ can lose almost everything in one match even.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
The Tainted are essentially humans who contracted or were born with the magical disease called the Taint.\n\n*Appearance*\nThe Taint begins with a period of incubation when the victim falls gravely sick and suffers seizures and spells for days or weeks. About half of them perish during this interval. The transformation starts after a day or so following the initial seizure and the changes remain for life, though in some rare cases, further changes manifest later. Symptoms are always physical but are often paired with serious mental disorders - either due to the traumatic nature of the transformation or the nature of the Taint itself; nobody knows for certain. The most common symptoms include skin color and texture change, fleshy growths, boils and scars, enlarged or shrunken body parts (almost never symmetrically), and the merging of the physical aspects of different species (part beast, part human mutants are fairly common).\n\n*History*\nEver since the Calamity, mutations of all kinds are commonplace on the continent. A correlation between the arcane powers unleashed by the cataclysm and the mutations has never been validated by sages or magic users, nevertheless, everyone believes there to be one. There’s no telling how it spreads or why it attacks the ones it does; its workings have eluded medical science altogether. These days, every third human on the continent is Tainted. Children between the ages 8 and 16 contract the disease more often than adults. Children of Tainted are often born healthy, while healthy parents can produce Tainted offspring.\n\n*Culture*\nThough high society still shuns these unfortunates, they have become so common that most people don’t even notice them, and a lot of the Tainted can live full lives. Since apparently proximity does not aid the spread of the Taint, pogroms against the Tainted generally ceased all over Xeryn a long time ago. Interestingly, no other race seems to contract the Taint, though there’s rumors of Elves getting Tainted and dying of it (or killed by their own people). Dwarves do get mutations and end up becoming bestial, often slain when they attack others - yet it remains extremely rare.\n\n[tags {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx} {recdbVxBTES840oDS} ]
This village is home to the Utvorar tribe of the Sadirar people who call the Searing Plains their home. It is built upon a bleak plateau overlooking the southern lava fields of the Molten Tongue.\n\n*Description*\nEach of the four great Sadirar tribes is connected to an elemental Great Spirit, the Utvorar being worshipers and wielders of flame and thus, their culture, magic, and beliefs revolve around the element of fire. They are the most warlike and territorial of the nomadic Sadirar. The village is built on a huge highland region overlooking scorching lava fields, the yellow-red volcanic stone buildings are painted orange (or sometimes grey) and are surrounded by thick stone walls.\n\nThese defenses along with a large number of warriors make Utvorar a well-protected place. There are wells in caverns below the village, guarded by fierce tribal fighters. Fires burn day and night to lead wayward hunters back to the plateau and to appease the raging Fire Spirit.\n\n*History*\nUtvorar was the last place to be settled after the Sadirar emerged from their vaults following the first few post-Calamity centuries. Originally exclusively nomadic, the Utvorar tribe finally decided to build their fort and village closest to the fiery lakes that are the dwelling of Fire Spirit in their view. It is said that the Utvorar have withstood several attacks from undead hordes in their village and were very difficult to negotiate with when the New Empire reclaimed the Searing Plains; they only listened to the explicit order of the Sadirar council to cease fighting the newcomers and make peace. Utvorar trackers are notoriously brazen, having accessed the Molten Kingdom of Dvendar Tharr regularly according to rumors. They are also relentless hunters of the undead who they see as an abomination of nature and thus kindling for the wrath of Fire Spirit.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl}]\n[node  {nodJ4WD3L9Yyud31f00P} ]
Sharduk are a culture of humans who managed to adapt to the cruel deserts of the east after invading Xeryn just before the Calamity.\n\n*Appearance*:\nSharduk typically have grey eyes, suntanned skins - which was originally quite fair - and light hair (brown or blonde). They are well-built and extremely hardy.\n\n*History*:\nJust before the Calamity, when the Empire was in the midst of brutally subjugating the nations of Tark and Viran, an immense fleet of gigantic ships landed on the eastern shores of Xeryn, filled with the exiled people of the Sharduk. Already fairly savage after a long period of social collapse in their homeland to the far east, the invaders decimated the Great Eastern Plains, the breadbasket of the Empire. The legions responded but only managed to achieve a shaky armistice that the Senate accepted in the hopes buying time against the rebelling provinces. Then the Calamity struck. The Sharduk followed the guidance of their Gods, boarded their ships, and waited out the Calamity off the shore. Upon returning, they saw that their new lands have become terrible, bleak deserts, but it was never in their nature to give up. So instead of despairing, the Sharduk accepted the challenges presented by the new world and adapted to the Great Eastern Desert where they dwell even today.\n\n*Culture*:\nToday, Sharduk are wandering tribesmen who hunt and ride giant lizards and are feared throughout the Empire. They are considered cruel and barbaric, though perhaps they are not much more barbaric than many other tribal cultures of the continent. Yet they have a terrible reputation, and since they are at odds with everyone else thanks to their marauding lifestyle, nobody likes to see them anywhere other than their deserts. 'A Sharduk would kill his own mother if it meant getting a few Lyrg.' - is a common saying in the Empire.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW}]
This village is home to the Eitrar tribe of the Sadirar people who call the Searing Plains their home. It is built upon steeply ascending terraces and overhands on the eastern side of the Mountains of Fire south of the Molten Tongue.\n\n*Description*\nEach of the four great Sadirar tribes is connected to an elemental Great Spirit, the Eitrar being worshipers of earth and thus, their culture, magic, and beliefs revolve around the element of earth. They are the most isolated and least known of the nomadic Sadirar. The village is built on elevated terraces on vast, towering, difficult-to-access mountain slopes, the grey-brown stone buildings are never painted except for the elemental symbols of the tribe and are surrounded by thick stone walls.\n\nThese defenses along with the ability of the Utvorar to summon earthquakes and landslides have made the village nigh impossible to besiege. There are wells in caverns below the village, guarded by fierce tribal fighters and earth elementals. Plantations of mushrooms and other crops also line the terraces above - the ground is fertile thanks to the blessings of Earth Spirit. Large monoliths and stone circles - adorned with crystals and other treasures of the earth - dot the settlement's interior.\n\n*History*\nEitrar was settled early after the Sadirar emerged from their vaults following the first few post-Calamity centuries. Wandering westwards in a bid to find more fertile lands, the Eitrar tribe decided to build their fort and village in the shadow of the great mountains, a clear sign of the strength and stoicism of Earth Spirit. It is said that the Eitrar were very open to deal with the New Empire when it strove to reclaim the Searing Plains. The earth shamans managed to convince the other tribes to set aside their differences and make peace with the Imperials who are their distant kin and are also bound to the earth of the continent, for better or worse. The Eitrar are said to know the underground ways of ancient and fallen Dvendar Tharr and have access to the accursed kingdom and its riches.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} ]\n\n[node  {noduRsu3LdWDT69c603v} ]\n
The Outer Realms are the infinite dimensions that were formed at the creation of the universe and serve as the foundation for reality. These planes were the home of the Elder Gods and their host of proxies prior to the Calamity. The individual worlds - or Realms, as they are called - are connected by the Outer Realms, and although travel is possible normally, for the most part, the vast distances necessitate the use of Gates: portals one can pass through to get somewhere instantly.\n\nThe Outer Realms were created at the dawn of time by the Gods - according to some religions - or coming into being by themselves. Some sages even suggest that they were formed gradually as the intricate conduits between mortals and Gods slowly filled the universe with an extended reality. Whatever the case, the Outer Realms are so unimaginably vast that nobody, not even the Gods of present-day, has seen it all. In its focal point lies the Well of All, which is the source of all creation according to Imperial religion. However, it was obscured by the Elder Gods long before their departure and thus no new Realms or beings can be created.\n\nThe most prominent landmarks of the Outer Realms are Mount Xyn and the Abyss, the former being the abandoned and haunted seat of the Elder Gods, while the other is the prison of Omkeo, Father of All Demons, who is chained at the bottom of the endless void. Tartaris, the Underworld, is also part of the Outer Realms, containing parts of the great void that is called the Abyss. The Damned - the great army of the Demon Princes - has reclaimed most of that accursed pit and uses it as a staging ground to invade most of the Outer Realms. Indeed, apart from abandoned reaches and some still standing forts, like Karad'Ruhn, most of the Outer Realms have been decimated by the onslaught of Demonkind, so travel through it has been perilous in recent millennia.\n\nDuring the Calamity, the continent of Xeryn has suffered such immense arcane damage that the boundaries between the Riven Realms and the Outer Realms broke in numerous places, and thus hundreds - if not thousands - of unstable but permanent Gates were created, often obscured by local anomalous activity. Thus, many beings normally kept out of Xeryn by the rules set down by the Elder Gods eons ago could now enter through these cracks and make a new home in the Riven Realms. This is the main reason for the existence of Demonkin and outright Demons in the Riven Realms as well as for the presence of some planeswalking races such as the Kal-rish, the Oghres, or the Ithil. The explored Gates were subsequently used to create fast ways to travel over vast distances; many of these are owned by powerful sorcerers or the Empire itself.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj} {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx} {recdbVxBTES840oDS}]
The Twin Towers are ancient fortifications guarding the main mountain pass of the Sepis Mountains, which has always been the border between the Province and the 'lands beyond' (/terra supra/ in Imperial) throughout Imperial history. One of the forts sits on the western, the other on the eastern slope of the pass, only a mile from each other. Though these keeps were of chief importance during the early-mid Third Age, they soon fell into disrepair due to relative peace ruling the Empire's middle regions for centuries on end. Having survived the Calamity, the forts were used as staging grounds for the reclamation of the northern territories. The last time a sizable force occupied them was during the Orc War, however, and the western fort suffered great damage when it was besieged and subsequently sacked. Since then, only the eastern fort is maintained yet it only supports a token garrison whose main task is to gather road tax from travelers.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]\n[node  {nodyupY3LdUbC69c603T} ]
Originally built by the Emperors of the Old Empire, this road made of stone is elevated on low but sturdy dykes all along its path. Even after the Calamity, this is the only major road that is maintained by the Imperial authorities. At intervals, guard towers and shelters are kept in relatively good condition, which means protection, but also taxes. Thus, many /comitati/ simply pick the ‘shadow road’, that is, the more dangerous but more profitable wilderness. The road runs from Toht in the north to the capital city in the south, effectively connecting the most distant major cities of the Empire while passing other very important settlements like Deven, Tor'Zag's Shelter, and Hadrinium. The road is the single most important channel of commerce and passage in the New Empire.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}] [region {regdrTP3Lzrmjd31f002}]
Toht is a great Imperial harbor city, situated on the seashore of the Mud Coast: a gloomy, humid, barren part of coastline with bogs, mudflats, and little else. Called 'the Gate of the North', it is the single most important haven for ships and the busiest port in the north.\n\n*Description*\nSince the Calamity, during which the sea devoured much of Toht, the shore and the coastal waters are strewn with the ruins of the old city: statues half-submerged that survive to this day due to their magical conditioning, often used as bases for rickety buildings by fishermen and scavengers. Navigating this with boats often leads to disaster, so a number of shipwrecks also dot the coastline. The harbor district is a jumble of driftwood and reclaimed stone houses that lean on each other like unwashed drunkards. The stone piers are overused and crowded, with smaller wooden ones leading away in a maze-like web. The rest of the city is made up of houses and villas of stone, narrow roads leading down to the shore, and vast plazas in the shadow of the colossus. Trade is everything here, with various goods coming in from the north and the Emperor’s Road leading south, crossing the continent.\n\nThe colossal statue of the Emperor still looms above the city, up to the waist, standing firm and supported by the same magic that was used to build it, muscular legs apart, facing the sea due north. Upon its shattered top part is Arx Altis (the High Fortress), the seat of the governing Lich Lord, the city officials, and the military elite. The fort is only accessible via a system of elevators and walkways built on the exterior of the statue. Lesser towers and turrets are built on the side of the legs and some government dwellings are carved into the statue legs. There is not much sunshine in Toht, as most of the year, an unnatural fog settles on the coast and the city. The sun is mostly visible at dawn and dusk as a bloody orb at the horizon.\n\n*History*\nBack before the Calamity, the city was considered a gateway to the Empire, with ships and travelers swarming in its harbor. It was built by early settlers of the north at the mouth of the River Lemura and naturally evolved into a great port. Because of its importance and position, the Immortal Emperor started to build a gigantic statue of the first Emperor, Xevaris Maximus, to stand over the city-port and greet newcomers as a symbol of the Empire. The statue project took hundreds of years to complete and was given over to the Apostles to oversee when the Emperor lost interest in it. When it was finished nearly 400 years after its start, the statue was a terrifying and amazing thing to behold, as it stood almost a mile high, supported by powerful magic woven into the stone itself. Twelve other statues were fashioned to stand in two lines leading down to the shore, forming an avenue that reaches the feet of the colossus, which was changed to bear the Immortal Emperor’s image instead of that of the first Emperor. The twelve smaller ones depicted the Apostles, but their heads were made so they could be replaced when a new apostle was chosen.\n\nWhen the Calamity struck, the city was swallowed by a horrible flood from the sea. The wave that struck was so high that it broke the colossus of the Emperor at the waist. Today, only the legs and lower body of the statue stand, with parts of the hand and chest strewn about in the city's vicinity. Ironically, the heads of the Apostle statues were lost but the rest of them stand to this day more or less. Even now, Toht is the capital of the northern provinces and still is one of the greatest ports of the Empire, with one of the Liches constantly residing there.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]\n[node  {nodsqs93LeUim69c600R} ]
The dreaded ruins that were once the city of Mortakpolis lie in the middle of No Man's Land, surrounded by a festering great swamp and visited by none but ghosts and tortured souls. Before the Calamity, Mortakpolis was a magnificent temple city ruled by a Hierophant and his council of high priests, built on a holy site and surrounded by fertile lands. Its temples and fanes were among the greatest in the Empire and it was a destination of many pilgrimages. According to legend, the servants of the Elder Gods appeared before the natives of the region in ancient times and gave them an important mission but also guidance and divine magic. The priesthood that accepted the mission and guidance rose to rule over the region and built Mortakpolis.\n\nWhen the Calamity struck, the priesthood and the Hierophant believed they would be spared by the Elder Gods for being persistent in their task but the cataclysm destroyed the city nonetheless, leaving behind a cursed, broken ruin that is difficult to approach and impossible to leave. It is said that a great evil dwells there and devours anyone who dares approach the toppled walls and towers of Mortakpolis. The surrounding province - called No Man's Land - has been almost completely abandoned since the Calamity, as whenever someone sought to settle it disappeared mysteriously. People whisper of the evil entity leaving the ruins and hunting down anyone who seeks to dwell in the region out of hubris. The Empire has had no interest to resettle the area at all, claiming it worthless.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i} ]\n\n[node  {nodEAa63LdXWY69c6034} ]
The Tarkians are human denizens of the country Tark, a desert-dwelling people in the arid, hot north. Their unique culture is the result of their gods of foreign origin, the cruel climate of their homeland, as well as their storied and perilous history.\n\n*Appearance*\nTarkians have dark eyes, dark hair, and sallow skin. Most of them are considered exotic-looking for Imperial eyes.\n\n*History*\nSome tribes of ancient Alghazar became nomads and horsemen of the vast, open plains at the foot of the Atuk Mountains following the War of Sorcerers and the subsequent split of the old continent. Even before the Calamity, Tarkians were a fiercely independent folk made up of different tribes, following the Twin Gods Amon and Inubis. Their merchants went far and wide, distributing exotic goods brought in from the Green Continent and other hard-to-access realms like Dajmaha.\n\nUnfortunately for the Tarkians, the Empire saw the value in Tark and its access to the seas in the north and so subjugated the nation towards the end of the Third Age. Tark remained rebellious and suffered greatly for it. The Calamity destroyed the dry plains of Tark, which became infertile deserts but the catastrophe avoided the great Atuk Mountain Range where a lot of Tarkians took refuge. In a few centuries, they adapted to desert life and regained their position as the greatest merchants of the continent. The New Empire moved in soon and again subjugated Tark following the Restoration Period, turning it into a very profitable - if rebellious - province where merchant princes rule over people with an iron fist.\n\n*Culture*\nTarkians have been divided into three castes ever since the start of their Imperial subjugation. The Handjari are the largest group, those who support the occupation and want to coexist with Imperials. They worship Inubis exclusively, who is often called 'the fourth member of the Triumvirate' in jest. The Jel'Kerai is a small group of Amon followers and sorcerers who fight a guerilla war against the occupation, sometimes aided by desert nomads. Of course, there are tribes and city dwellers who do not belong to either group and only want to get by, forming the third caste.\n\nTarkian culture is mercantile at heart, as they have been hauling cargo across great arid wastelands long before the Calamity. Most other denizens of Xeryn consider them very good at talking and trading, but sometimes identify them as not trustworthy or outright sleazy. Yet Tarkians are usually cultured and learned people who dislike being treated as anything but honest.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW}]
Large canines that roam the arid wastelands and wind-swept plains of the continent, Mokoru present a danger to travelers and often get bold enough to raid small settlements.\n\n*Appearance*\nEquipped with thin but muscular legs, a lean body type, a long neck, and an elongated head, Mokoru are fantastic runners and are quick on their feet. Their yellow eyes glow in the dark, while their brownish striped fur is short except for a line on their spine, which turns into a mangy mane. Large, jagged teeth line their maws that they can use to tear skin, flesh, and even hardened leather.\n\n*Behavior*\nMokoru are very intelligent and hunt in groups of 4 to 8, led by an Alpha male. The pack can be utterly demoralized if the Alpha is killed. What the Mokoru can't hunt they can outrun. They are very adaptable but prefer open environments where they can take advantage of their great running speed. These canines can be domesticated but it is not a particularly easy task, requiring an experienced beastmaster and quite a lot of time. When they accept humanoids as pack members, however, they prove to be extremely useful guard and hunt animals.\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x} ]
The Orcs are not only a relatively new addition to the continent’s colorful races but are aliens to the world itself. \n\n*Appearance*\nOrcs are physically perfect: they are muscular, athletic, sturdy, and possess amazing stamina. They are human-sized, with black hair and skin that ranges in color from green to brownish. Their lower canines are large, protruding from their mouths, and their eyes are yellow with black reptilian pupils.\n\n*History*\nHaving been summoned as roaming souls from the Outer Realms and given bodies in a ritual of unmatched sorcerous power by the Twelve, the Orcs were created as the perfect warriors without memories: weapons of the Empire in their war on the northern continent about 350 years before the present day. However, the Orcs soon found out about the deceit of their masters and rebelled against them. In the brutal war that followed called the Orc Wars, the Empire was decimated, and only by begging the Dragonlords to intervene could they save themselves. Seeing that the Orcs would prove a problem in the long run, the Dragons added their immense power to that of their former enemies and managed to utterly defeat the Orcs, ending the war.\n\nA tenuous status quo has been maintained ever since, with the surviving Orcs relocating to the swamplands of Darkmoor at the edge of the Empire, hating Imperials and Dragons in equal measure ever since. In Darkmoor, they began to procreate and the tribes fought anyone nearby as well as each other, which might be the only reason they haven't become a major threat to the Empire in the last couple of centuries.\n\n*Culture*\nThe Orcs were godless from the beginning despite all the efforts of the Twelve to convert them to follow the Triumvirate. As their very creation and existence is intimately connected to the spirits of the dead, their belief system revolves around these same specters and the idea that by living a life of battle and courage, their own souls return to their rightful place in the afterlife instead of haunting this world. This spirit faith is propagated by shamans and meshes surprisingly well with Orcish warrior culture.\n\nOrcs are usually considered violent barbarians and those that leave Darkmoor often find jobs that suit this profile. Yet these days many seem to adhere to a new belief of tranquil spirituality, a phenomenon that is about to shake the foundations of tribal Orcish society. Their traditional tribal communities follow the leadership of chieftains and shamans and usually, the most skilled warriors are the ones who dictate laws and agendas. Darkmoor is an inhospitable place abundant with parasitic life, so life is difficult for the tribes. Many of the Orcs thus specialize in taking valuables from others, be they other tribes or other races. Orcish pirates of the Inner Sea are especially dreaded.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} ]
Dvendar Tharr was the name of the southern Dwarven Kingdom. The other two kingdoms are found on the northern continent, not on Xeryn. Ruled by the magnificent Inventor Kings of the Third Age, Dvendar Tharr became one of the mightiest of powers before being completely wiped out in the Calamity via cataclysmic volcanic activity.\n\n*Description*\nThe mountains still rage to this day, belching flame and lava. Skies are constantly overcast with ash and smoke, and the air is unbearably hot. Lava lakes and rivers churn in the low valleys, while dotted here and there are the molten remains of once mighty Dwarven iron cities. For all intents and purposes, Dvendar Tharr is a dead kingdom. It is therefore nigh impossible to access the realm but that does not mean nobody tries because of the riches that could be found there. They have to contend not only with the inhospitable environment but with accursed fire creatures as well.\n\n*History*\nThe kingdom of Dvendar Tharr was founded during the First Age by Bromnir the Old according to tradition outlined in the earliest Dwarven eddas. He was the progenitor of the line of kings that ruled the realm for many millennia and produced the Inventor Kings in the Third Age. These kings led the Dwarves into a golden age along with their ally the Empire whom they passed on to many of their technological advancements in their heyday. Eventually, the Dwarves became obsessed by technology and their society suffered badly for it. Eventually, obsession turned into mania and the Inventor Kings oppressed their subjects so that their megalomaniac projects could be seen to completion. Then the Calamity struck. The Calamity reinvigorated the volcanic activities beneath the mountain range, and destroyed Dvendar Tharr in a spectacular display of fire and ash and earthquakes. The mountains that made up the old Dwarven kingdom of Dvendar Tharr are now only referred to as the Mountains of Fire and the realm itself the Molten Kingdom.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}]
What is today the Imperial city of Larnak stands on the site of a great tectum, that is, a natural or artificial vault or shelter underground where many people survived the Calamity and the following centuries.\n\n*Description*\nLarnak has several tall watchtowers made of dark stone but most of the city is underground - safe from the deadly sun, either under the great sandstone domes with holes or even deeper, in the ancient tectum that was converted to house thousands. Tunnels and corridors are its streets, while cavernous halls are its squares and buildings. A large gate that opens southwards leads into Larnak; though it is not the only entrance, it is the only public one.\n\n*History*\nThe region was originally dotted with hills and small mountain ranges, as well as continuous forests. Under these ranges were vast caverns carved by some ancient beings that the original inhabitants of the region only referred to as ‘wyrms’. Whatever these creatures were, they were huge and left a hive-like structure behind that survived into the Calamity. This was used as a tectum by the ancestors of the Sadirar people who followed divine warnings and hid in the shelter. \n\nThree centuries after the Calamity, people emerged and went out into the desert, becoming Sadirar tribes that now inhabit the region, fully abandoning Larnak in the process. The fifth century brought Imperial presence and the city was resettled, with an outpost placed above the tectum, still under the dome filled with holes. Because water can be found below Larnak, it became strategically important, and soon rose to the status of a major Imperial city. Sadirar emerged in the sixth century and waged a war against Imperials in a bid to reclaim the site which they considered sacred. Eventually, the war ended when diplomats convinced the tribesmen to settle down in Larnak with autonomy and control over the water reserves. Thus, Vitrar shamans have been in control of the water in Larnak ever since to the slight dismay of Imperial authorities.\n\nThe seventh century marked the return of the wyrms. They caused great devastation but eventually the combined forces of Imperial, Dark Elven, and Sadirar forces defeated them and drove them back into the deepest reaches of Arenas Vorax where they dwell and breed to this day, out of sight and mind of most citizens. Yet the people of Larnak dread the day when the wyrms return and burrow into their homes.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]\n[node {nodHBJJ3LdXKK69c600y} ]
Wraiths are diminutive, subterranean humanoids native to the caverns below Deven; they managed to spread over the whole continent despite their awful reputation as thieves and corpse eaters.\n\n*Appearance*\nWraiths are small, furtive creatures, white-skinned, completely hairless, black-eyed, armed with jagged teeth that can tear flesh. They can see perfectly in the dark but are allergic to sunlight. Wraiths can contort their bones and bodies to fit into small crevices. They are known for their ability to digest a lot of things that would kill others; their resistance to toxins and diseases is astounding.\n\n*History*\nThe creatures colloquially called ‘Wraiths’ are one of the Children of the Calamity, that is, beings that were transformed by the immense arcane powers unleashed in the catastrophe. Such mutations could not have occurred in a matter of a century normally, yet they did, aided by unspeakable magical forces unleashed as well as the fallout that remained. Thus the people of the city of Deven changed into the Wraiths inside their underground shelters several decades after the Calamity struck. They spent centuries down there in the tunnels buried under the ruins of the city before the New Empire rediscovered them, and thus adapted to their environs astonishingly.\n\n*Culture*\nSince their discovery, Wraiths have spread slowly but steadily throughout the Empire, though they mostly keep to places where there is little light (or where one can hide from it). Therefore, they travel rarely. Due to their unsavory reputation of being corpse eaters, the Church of Ahskul demonizes them and the general population distrusts them. However, this gives them the ability to move ‘unseen’ by most who turn away from them. Though they do not have a culture of their own, they do stick together and form communities within communities, following their own leaders and agendas, which mostly involves getting rich. They do prefer eating uncooked, rotting meat, preferably fresh from carcasses.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} ]
This village is home to the Vitrar tribe of the Sadirar people who call the Searing Plains their home. It was built in and around a lush oasis of many lakes and ponds.\n\n*Description*\nEach of the four great Sadirar tribes is connected to an elemental Great Spirit, the Vitrar being worshipers and keepers of water and thus, their culture, magic, and beliefs revolve around the element of water. They are the least numerous and most obscure of the nomadic Sadirar. The village mirrors this perfectly: built in an oasis around a set of large ponds, the yellow-white sandstone buildings are painted blue (or sometimes green) and are beset by palm trees and other vegetation. Primitive but effective aqueducts and pools make the village a well-irrigated and very pleasant place. Part of Vitrar stands over the lakes on stilts. The oasis is guarded by fierce tribal warriors: outriders on large lizards or insects. Several small sandstone forts were raised to defend the precious water supplies.\n\n*History*\nVitrar was among the first oases to be settled after the Sadirar emerged from their vaults following the first few post-Calamity centuries. The tribe has managed to keep the grand oasis intact by great effort throughout the centuries, though the Sand Wyrms and other conflicts have largely avoided the place.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl}]\n[node  {nodc34x3L9Z71d31f00U}]
The Sadirar are humans who live in the inhospitable deserts of the Searing Plains. Nomads and hunters, most of their tribes have no permanent dwellings. They are fairly territorial but are known to be open to negotiation.\n\n*Appearance*\nSadirar are small in stature and have suntanned skin. Their hair is usually darker. Their traditional garments include ponchos and burnouses of radiant colors (matching the tribe's spirit worship), as well as tribal trinkets.\n\n*History*\nThe Sadirar tribes are the descendants of the people of the western province of Gavrann who - upon receiving omens from the heavens - hid in vaults built under the earth right before the Calamity struck. Previously, they had been a province covered in mighty forests, of which only deserts remained. The people who survived emerged from these vaults and made the Searing Plains their new home. They turned to the worship of the elements and personified them as Great Spirits.\n\nThese days, Sadirar are desert savages who get by quite well in the Plains despite the many dangers there. When the New Empire appeared, the tribes agreed to join it as loose allies after some initial skirmishes, proving their worth during /The Return of the Wyrms/ (p.c. 678-691). Due to their remote location and relative openness to Imperial presence, there were no later altercations between the two sides.\n\n*Culture*\nEach Great Spirit has a dedicated tribe. Earth Spirit is worshiped by the Eitrar, Wind Spirit by the Kotrar, Fire Spirit by the Utvorar, and Water Spirit by the Vitrar; there is also a tribe of Elders that rules over all of them and keeps the peace, called simply Sadirar (though not by themselves). Smaller tribes belong to each of the big four and more or less mimic their specific cultures. These lesser tribes make up the majority of Sadirar population and they wander the Searing Plains ceaselessly, while the four great tribes have permanent dwellings in sacred parts of the desert. The communities are led by shaman-chiefs who are adept at using elemental magic and talking to nature spirits. Nobody knows the western deserts quite as well as the Sadirar do.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} ]
A /collegium/ (plural: /collegia/) is a traditional Imperial association, a kind of guild with its own rules, rights, and obligations. In the Fourth Age, they have become little more than organized crime syndicates that run the underworld of Imperial cities.\n\n*History*\n/Collegia/ originate from the early days of the Third Age, from the capital city of Xeryn where merchants and craftsmen began to organize themselves into guilds and unions to protect their rights or manipulate the market to their advantage. The Senate soon stepped in to regulate these associations which led to intense political struggle. The /collegia/ were eventually given rights along with obligations: many of them oversaw parts of civic life or services. For example, the Carpenters' Collegium was responsible for repairing city buildings in exchange for exclusive rights in lumbering and carpentry businesses. The institution soon spread to other Imperial cities and provinces, now each with their own set of guilds and associations operating under Imperial law.\n\nEven during the Golden Age, /collegia/ began to devolve into organized crime syndicates when the opportunistic and unscrupulous members of society began to see a chance to hide behind the law and spread their influence through the /collegia/. The Fourth Age saw the return of /collegia/ (and the associated crime syndicates) to the capital and large cities that were reclaimed by the Empire. Their operations have become more and more brazen and people are so accustomed to their ways that nobody ever thinks of questioning them.\n\n*Structure and Activity*\n/Collegia/ are rarely involved in civic duties nowadays and are rights-protecting organizations only on the surface. Instead, they oversee all criminal activity in cities, including racketeering, prostitution, smuggling, fencing, burglary, begging, and gambling dens. They often have a great say in mercenary work and even sports activities, like gladiator fights or chariot races.\n\nMost /collegia/ are run by a single strong leader whose person may often change thanks to brutal power struggles. Under the leader are the captains, trusted officers who run most of the day-to-day business. Under them are members, who are fully accepted into the /collegium/ and are often responsible for an area of the city or a specific business. This essentially creates a criminal life model and rank ladder that can be climbed. City officials are seldom ignorant of /collegia/ activity and are more likely to be members themselves in secret, or at least benefit from bribes to remain silent.\n\n[tags {receCIfXSlpPPQjCY} {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]
Bogweed is both the name of a plant found in many swamps around the Empire and of the recreational drug that is derived from the plant. It rose to popularity long before the Calamity but thanks to large areas turning to marshlands after the catastrophe, its usage became more widespread. It can be taken by smoking (usually rolled in a reefer), as a potion (although this requires higher alchemy skills), or by vaporizing (in a Tarkian hookah). Some food recipes also exist that utilize bogweed for its added effect but these are quite rare. Bogweed causes a calm, almost meditative state coupled with a sense of glee or joy when taken in the right dosage but it can damage the mind if taken in excess or through prolonged exposure. Though technically not illegal, due to harsh Imperial taxation, many underworld organizations rather smuggle it and sell it on the black market.\n\n[tags {recE8cOwqRIX770Fm} {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {receCIfXSlpPPQjCY} ]
A sub-region of the Searing Plains, Arenas Vorax (The Voracious Sands) is a hot, arid, and dry desert of sand dunes and little else, famous for its many quicksands that devour anything and anybody that stray onto them. Arenas Vorax is the northeastern part of the Plains, south and east of the Smolderbone Flats.\n\n*Description*\nThis large, flat region is swept by strong winds and beaten by a relentless, scorching sun at all times. Nights are cold and dark, but the stars are still visible at least. Sandstorms are the most common here in all the Searing Plains. Oases are rare, and if they are not occupied by a faction, they are currently contested. Many avoid Arenas Vorax because of the large areas of hidden quicksand that plague the place. Even the Sadirar, the best trackers and masters of the desert try not to enter the deep reaches of Arenas Vorax. When they do, they keep to path known to go around the most dangerous areas. However, because the quicksand seems to shift around, the hungry sands still claim many victims year after year.\n\n*History*\nMostly dense forests and rolling, fertile hills, this whole region was bombarded by fire from the sky during the Calamity. Legends say it was so devastating and hot that it turned the surface into glass, which shattered and was ground into fine sand. People who survived in shelters called /tectum/, and emerged hundreds of years after the cataclysm to retake the area. They fought fierce battles with the sand wyrms of the area and now occupy the oases and underground cities that dot the endless dune sea. These territories are officially under Imperial control but in truth this rule is fairly loose except for a few cities.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regygPe3KmLv90350005}]
Avernus Legion is the 16th Imperial Legion (Legio XVI.), first summoned by the Senate in p.c. 941 to aid the existing legions in the Second Viran War. Conscripts were mostly pulled from the Searing Plains, Jagged Waste, and Hearthlands regions. Because many young officers hailed from Avernum and showed exceptional promise, the legion got named after the city. Fame came only later, when Avernus took a lion's share in the battles that led to the assault on the Virani capital itself during the Siege of Old Viran (p.c. 991-993). Although the siege was eventually broken, most Imperial forces were withdrawn unscathed thanks to the sacrifice of the 16th.\n\nHaving lost a lot of men, Avernus Legion returned to the Empire but its ranks were not refilled, some say for political reasons. The 16th became a glorified guard force in and around the capital for many decades to come. In p.c. 1085, Gaius Ravius Praediris, a young and bright aristocrat joined the ranks of the Avernus Legion and quickly rose to prominence as an officer as well as in popularity. The 16th was deployed on the northern front after a lengthy peacekeeping mission in Tark but was fully disarmed in p.c. 1088. Gaius Ravius, who was appointed the governor of Avernum, took a large group of veterans from his command to the city. Now on his payroll, the former 16th (keeping the name Avernus Legion) became the personal army of the nobleman, who was commonly referred to as 'The Prefectus'. Ever since, they have been his loyal peacekeepers, guardsmen, and assassins, granted legitimacy by their lord's position.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]
The man called /The Prefectus/ is the governor of Avernum, appointed by the Imperial Senate. Although the office of Prefect is well-known and utilized in the Empire, the man in question is quite a unique individual when it comes to his office and authority. Rumor has it that the city has become the private empire of this ambitious and mysterious aristocrat.\n\nCalled Gaius Ravius Praediris, the Prefectus is of noble birth; an aristocrat who had been given his own command in the Avernus Legion (Legio XVI.) at a very young age. Clearly gifted, he abruptly put an end to his military career after the sudden disarmament of Legio XVI. and tried his hand at politics at the capital, which proved to be a dangerous game even for someone of his skills and wealth. Whatever happened there is unclear but after several years of service to the Empire, Gaius Ravius was appointed the governor of Avernus and moved there, taking with him his old military unit from the Avernus Legion (even keeping the name).\n\nGaius Ravius is not a man to trifle with. He has taken Avernum from a backwater town to a prosperous - if cruel - city in a matter of years and managed to secure his own power at the same time. The Avernus Legion is not much more than his personal mercenary army, utterly loyal and generally feared - and rightly so. Because of the relatively loose presence of the Triumvirate Churches and its isolation from the rest of the Empire, Avernum has been known to have taken Imperial Law more as guidelines than actual rules, and the Prefectus has benefited the most.\n\n[tags {recXmsgpnwrAzhCmF} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]
Liberated tribes are essentially outlaw groups that are made up exclusively or mostly of escaped slaves. These are not tribes in a cultural sense but rather because they often devolve into isolated micro-societies governed by tribalism and primitive violence. Yet they are generally the only option for escaped slaves who can not return to whence they came. These individuals soon learn that their fate is not much better in these glorified wasteland bandit gangs despite the elevated rhetoric. Many who join these tribes have to go without a stable food source and end up doing things they detest their former owners for. Still, most would never go back as they value their hard-earned freedom more. The Empire's authorities say that they do everything in their power to eliminate liberated tribes but the reality is most such gangs are either too well-hidden, too mobile, or too distant to be worth sending troops to hunt them down.\n\n[tags {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx} ]
/Comes/ is the word used in the Imperial language to describe a fellow traveler, usually someone in the same /comitatus/. Its original meaning is 'comrade' or 'fellow'. /Comes/ are usually sacred according to Imperial religion and everyone is supposed to look out for their traveling companions to the best of their abilities.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {recLF3Dyip1e2Q7RU}]
Statios are great inns alongside roads built to house /comitati/ and other groups of travelers. They are often circular, with a spacious plaza in the middle and stables all around it to house all kinds of beasts of burden. The outer circle is jammed with service buildings such as taverns, bawdy houses, gambling dens, and rooms for rent - but only in the bigger ones. Statios can be quite varied depending on who runs them but most of them have all the basic services required by travelers. Commerce often converges in these establishments but they are far from a marketplace; usually supplies and slaves can be acquired there, as well as beasts of burden. Also, locals who have news and rumors gather in the halls of statios, so whoever wants to learn of other lands goes there.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} ]
Mansios are great inns in towns or cities built to house /comitati/ and other groups of travelers. They are often circular, with a spacious plaza in the middle and stables all around it to house all kinds of beasts of burden. The outer circle is jammed with service buildings such as taverns, bawdy houses, gambling dens, and rooms for rent. Mansios can be quite varied depending on who runs them but most of them have all the basic services required by travelers. Commerce often converges in these establisments but they are far from a marketplace; usually supplies and slaves can be acquired there, as well as beasts of burden. Also, people who have news and rumors gather in the halls of mansios, so whoever wants to learn of other lands goes there.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl}]
A /vagrus/ is a person who leads a /comitatus/. The original meaning of the word is 'vagabond'. This leader is considered a venturer, a wanderer, and a captain. /Vagri/ can be elected or simply own most of the /comitatus/ due to their wealth. Most people consider them necessary since they often bring news and trouble but also are vital to the survival of distant and isolated places as well as to the flow of commerce in the Empire. Most /vagri/ are fiercely independent, though some work exclusively for a Trading House.\n\n[tags {recLF3Dyip1e2Q7RU} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} ]
/Comitatus/ is the Imperial word for an armed traveling company of varied size and composition. The word can be used to describe a merchant caravan, a mercenary company, a group of explorers, a band of fugitives, and so forth; basically any group that stays together for an extended period of time on the road can be called a /comitatus/. Yet, most people only use the term exclusively for a group of people who wander constantly, making a living as traveling merchants or mercenaries and who have a /vagrus/ - or leader - who runs the venture professionally. Due to the isolation of most settlements and the vast, empty wastelands in between them, /comitati/ are vital to the survival of the Empire, as they are the only way to carry news, passengers, and goods over bleak leagues of land.\n\n[tags {recLF3Dyip1e2Q7RU} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]
The Church of Ahskul is the religious institution of the God of Death. The organization is responsible for all funeral activities and for the maintenance of necropolises, crypts, and graveyards across the Empire. Because of the general belief that a soul is damned to wander eternally unless the proper rituals are given upon death, the Church wields tremendous influence over most people. The priests and necromancers of Ahskul are also tasked with supplying unliving legionnaires for the wars of the Empire and they hunt down all undead not controlled by one of their ordained. Ahskul's Church has the most numerous members and followers by far in the Triumvirate. His priests are popular for they deal in serenity and even a grim empathy.\n\nThe high priests of the Church wield great political and magical power, often holding seats of the Senate. The head of the Church is the Vicar, who is usually the most gifted and experienced necromancer of the holy order. All priests start as novices and go through religious, magical, and physiological training. Their magic includes the ability to talk to the dead and animating them, commanding undead, as well as the manipulation of life force and souls.\n\nThe Church has close ties to Ordis Negras Solis (the Order of the Black Sun), which is the Empire's greatest knightly order. It is said that Sergorod has much more influence over the black knights' agenda and that Ahskulites do not care. The Church has two major and well-known sects: the Watchers and the Apothecaries. The former is a militant group, tasked with the protection of the holiest sites and grandest necropolises, while the latter is a group sworn to use all their knowledge in medicine and physiology to keep the sacred life force where it belongs - to the living.\n\nThe Church has a lot of temples scattered around the continent - every city has one, and even the smallest settlements have graveyards where at least a novice toils. The major necropolises of the King of the Underworld can be found in the Imperial capital city, in Charnel Valley, at the end of the Causeway of the Dead, and in Deven.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]
The Molten Tongue is the name of a region in western Xeryn. It is a gigantic, constantly flowing lava river.\n\n*Description*\nThe Molten Tongue is a gigantic, forking lava river that covers a vast volcanic plain and hill region at the foot of Dvendar Tharr, the Molten Kingdom. Volcanic ash from the nearby mountains covers the Western sky day and night. Ash and storm clouds gather over the mountains and are lit from below by the fires among the peaks. The active volcanoes keep spitting meteors and liquid fire in the distance. Many small and large lava lakes dot the region, and the ground and stones are either covered in soot or show angry red colors. The giant lava river distorts the air from a distance, and closer to it the heat is unbearable.\n\n*History*\nBefore the Calamity, Dvendar Tharr was the kingdom of all Dwarves on the continent, a land unmatched in technological advancements, inventions, and ambition. One of the oldest of Dwarven royal lines, kings of Dvendar Tharr were sympathetic to humans and aided them throughout the Second Age, then became fast friends by the Third Age. The Inventor Kings showed early Imperials the art of metalworking and stonemasonry, helped build their ancient cities, and taught them how to mine ores. Dvendar Tharr itself was abundant with metal and precious stones, so much so in fact that in their unmatched pride, the Inventor Kings of the late Third Age forgot the wise ways of their forefathers and started refashioning their massive stone fortresses and arching bridges from iron. By the end of the Age, gigantic monuments and vast cities made entirely of metal stood among and atop the great mountains of the west. Between them, metal roads were erected high above the canyons and valleys.\n\nWhen the Calamity hit, the slumbering volcanoes of Dvendar Tharr burst with cataclysmic force and melted the iron cities and roads, killing millions in minutes. Large rivers of lava emerged, the sky became ash, the air poison. The few that survived fled the kingdom, and became a homeless, wandering, disgruntled people with no hope or future. The area east of the mountains became a no man’s land of volcanic ash and lava. The many lava flows in the central mountain range and most prominent volcanoes merged into a single, giant lava river that flows east and travels leagues before gathering into lakes of magma or slowing down and cooling. This river is the Molten Tongue. Not much can live near the lava formations but that does not mean that fools don’t try to travel there every now and again. Due to the Calamity, the land is cursed to bleed lava forever, so the Molten Tongue has been spilling forth for over a thousand years.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regdRxX3Li3SJ84d8002}]
The Dead Forest is a large woodland area which is counted as part of the Land of Shadows, situated between the Bronze Desert in the north and the Searing Plains in the south.\n\n*Description*\nForever dark and foreboding, the trees in the glades still stand but are leafless, blackened, and look dead. The area is in constant gloom, which is neither day nor night. There is no wind; the stifling air does not move. Black char - the reminder of green leaves long gone - covers the ground everywhere. Nothing lives here and nothing moves, except for spider-like beings in the north part of the woods that managed to spin their webs so thick that all light is blotted out by them. Whoever touches certain dead trees comes to an unknown but presumably horrible end. Legends say that these dead trees still hold a curse that kills swiftly and uncompromisingly, which has made lumbering rather risky, if profitable.\n\n*History*\nWhat used to be the Shimmering Woods before the Calamity turned into a bleak and desolate place called the Dead Forest following the cataclysm. Spanning a vast territory the size of a smaller province, the unified woodlands are a shadow of their former selves. The Empire was in no hurry to reclaim the foreboding place and even today, apart from a few outposts gathering timber, nobody visits the forest.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regzHH93Li3eE84d8002}]
One of the largest continuous desert areas on a continent of many deserts, the Searing Plains spans several provinces that used to be forested regions and fertile plains before the Calamity, but became hot, arid, and dry places of sand dunes and little else after the cataclysm struck. Many smaller regions make up the Searing Plains, all of them hot and arid: Arenas Vorax, the Smolderbone Flats, the eastern hills of the Mountains of Fire, and the southern plains around Lost Vratluk.\n\n*Description*\nThis large, flat region is swept by strong winds and beaten by a relentless, scorching sun at all times. Nights are cold and dark, but the stars are still visible at least. Some parts of the plains have low mountain ranges, rock gullies, ravines, or former riverbeds but generally yellow sand dunes and salt flats are the most common features. A constant, hot wind blows from the east and north, creating sandstorms regularly. Here and there, one can find an oasis but these are pretty rare, and if they are not occupied by a faction, they are currently contested. The vast northern part of the Searing Plains is called the Voracious Desert (Arenas Vorax). It is a desert of yellow sands and great dunes. Barren and wind-swept, many avoid it, because of the numerous and hidden quicksands that plague the place. Tribal people called the Sadirar inhabit some parts of Arenas Vorax, although they mostly just travel through and live west of the Voracious Desert. The Sadirar lived through the Calamity in underground shelters. They are less aggressive than other tribal cultures on the continent but they are still very territorial.\n\n*History*\nMostly dense forests and rolling, fertile hills, this whole region was bombarded by fire from the sky during the Calamity. Legends say it was so devastating and hot that it turned the surface into glass, which shattered and was ground into fine sand. People who survived in shelters called /tectums/ emerged hundreds of years after the cataclysm to retake the area. They fought fierce battles with the sand wyrms of the area and now occupy the oases and underground cities that dot the endless dune sea. These territories are officially under Imperial control but in truth, this rule is fairly loose except for a few cities.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {regg3UN3Ldwu184d8007}]
Emperor Valen Xevaris, the Immortal Emperor, Protector of the People, the Deathless, the Divine Son of Xyn the King of the Elder Gods has been the sovereign of the Empire for over 2000 years. Ever since his self-sacrifice during the Calamity and his subsequent comatose state he has been unable to rule, however, and thus his most trusted servants - the Apostles - took on the burden of governing the Empire in His name. It might also behoove any historian or loremaster to note that even before the Calamity, His Imperial Majesty has been rather distant from state affairs and politics in general, and was mostly occupied with overseeing the construction of the Cathedral of Ascendency in the capital as well as with various mysterious passion projects. Thus, the Apostles have been quite prepared for taking over the rule of the Empire in His absence.\n\nImperial tradition states that a Golden Age had been going on for over a thousand years at the end of the Third Age. This exquisitely prosperous and blessed period occurred on behalf of the Gods themselves: they were the ones who guided Valen Xevaris, the Immortal Emperor. Xevaris ascended to the Imperial throne over a thousand years before the Calamity. Him not growing old - or, in fact, not aging at all - was not a natural phenomenon, and the people of the Empire had started to grow suspicious at first. However, the clergy soon declared that Valen Xevaris is a direct descendant of the gods themselves, a son of Xyn, the supreme god and King of the Pantheon.\n\nThe Emperor was thus seen as a demigod, and his popularity grew exponentially in the first few decades of his rule. Supported unquestioningly by the clergy, His Divine Majesty performed miracles on a daily basis: refreshing political reforms, sensitive social engineering, economic boom, game-changing inventions, glorious military victories, and divine interventions were among the many things attributed to Xevaris. The true extent of his involvement is impossible to say today but there is no doubt that under his rule, the Empire rose to be the greatest power in the whole world. The Emperor started to withdraw from public after the first 700 years of his rule and was occupied with mysterious projects for the betterment of his Empire. He was absent in the centuries prior to the Calamity and only appeared to defend the people of the capital and the Hearthlands when the Elder Gods struck. His self-sacrifice saved most of these regions from arcane destruction but the inconceivable magical energies harmed him so badly that he fell into a stasis and has not woken up ever since. Most Imperials believe that the day will come when he will again walk among them and lead the Empire to a new Golden Age. Until then, he is slumbering in the Cathedral of Ascendancy, the very site of His stand against the treacherous Elder Gods, and only the Twelve, as well as the highest ranking Ahskul priests can see Him.\n\n[tags {recXmsgpnwrAzhCmF} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} ]
The Pillars of the Empire (Fulcimus Imperium) is the umbrella term for three religious institutions that are separate from the Churches of the Triumvirate, yet are intricately interwoven with them and bind them together. Their founding in the second century following the Calamity was the result of a terrible war between the Churches that almost toppled the New Empire, still in its crib. The Twelve, however, managed to stop the conflict and impose strict rules on the unbridled priesthoods. To build bridges among them, the Lich Lords devised a plan that involved the creation of holy orders that involve a pair of gods each, binding each god closer to the other two. Although the occasional strife remains between the clergies of such malignant gods, the Pillars were successful in bringing religious stability to the Empire.\n\nThe three Pillars are the Order of the Black Sun, the Nosferatis Sisterhood, and the Ater Manis.\n\n*Ordis Negras Solis* (Order of the Black Sun) is the first and foremost knightly order of the Empire. They follow Sergorod and Ahskul, being proficient in both the God of Vengeance’s military prowess and the Lord of Death’s necromancy. The knights are picked from the best soldiers, nobles, and warriors of the realms to serve without question. After they undergo rigorous training and mystical initiations, these deadly, dark knights serve by guarding aristocrats, aiding military exploits, and hunting down the enemies of the Empire - foreign or domestic. Due to the Order's official status as inquisitors, investigators, and executioners, they can go as they please and interrogate who they wish, a power that most of them gladly abuse for the good of the Empire.\n\n*The Nosferatis Sisterhood* is a much more secretive organization, one that is best described as a coven of witches and a purveyor of dark secrets. Members are the adherents of Bal Ur Kaal and Ahskul. Only a few Imperials know - but most have a vague notion - that the Sisters in fact research magic and natural sciences. Dabbling in all the known sorcerous arts in an attempt to unlock more potent and ingenious powers, the Sisterhood has mastered blood magic, soul manipulation, necromancy, magical charms, arcane sacrifices, and prophetic divinations. No act is too depraved for them if it is in the service of the Empire. Countless new kinds of Undead, mutants, spells, rituals, and dark truths came into the possession of the Empire through the ages thanks to Nosferatis.\n\nLastly, *Ater Manis* (the Dark Hand) is a secret society acting as the assassin’s guild of the Empire even though publicly the order is one of state couriers and spies. Applying Bal Ur Kaal’s art of secrecy, charm, and deceit, as well as Sergorod’s martial prowess and fanatic determination for justice, agents of the Dark Hand can eliminate any target named by the Twelve or the Senate. Individuals not in a state capacity can also hire the Ater Manis, albeit for a fortune and they still have to follow the strict code of conduct. Whoever works with them can expect efficiency and complete discretion. Word is that no target has ever escaped the organization, yet the vast majority of Imperials do not even know they exist.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]
Ahskul is King of the Underworld and the God of Death, a member of the Triumvirate, the official religion of the Empire. He looks after the dead and their souls. His Church is the strongest in the Empire, justifying the notion that Imperials have become death cultists. Yet it is also the least corrupt of the religious institutions by far, and the disciples of the Grim Lord are reputed for their silence, discreet manners, and grim empathy, even. Ahskul is believed to be the first being ever to have truly died and thus is theorized to have been around for much longer than his appearance right after the Calamity. His Church is tasked with facilitating all funerals, burials, and with the overseeing of graveyards and crypts. Additionally, at times of war, the risen legions of Ahskul, called to unlife by his death priests and necromancers, make up the backbone of Imperial armies.\n\nAccording to legend, Ahskul contacted the Twelve just after the Calamity and offered them his aid in rebuilding the fallen Empire. They accepted and the King of the Underworld has been their closest ally ever since; some folks even claim that he had a hand in resurrecting the Apostles as Liches, even though this miracle is attributed to the Emperor in dogma. With so many dead due to the Calamity, Ahskul and his following took upon themselves to give proper rest and relief to these tortured souls. Even these days, the dead are respected by Ahskulites and without proper rites, the souls are said to remain behind in the Riven Realms, suffering for eternity instead of taking its place in Tartaris, the Underworld in Imperial religion. The gigantic necropolises of the southern provinces are looked after by Ahskulites.\n\nAhskul's priests have power over life force and souls; they are necromancers, able to talk to the dead and even animate them, potentially in large numbers. Without priests and necromancers, the risen dead are only husks controlled by malevolent instincts, so they are needed when Undead are used as a work force or fighters in the legions of the Empire. Undead without an independent mind that are not controlled by a believer or a licensed necromancer are sought out and destroyed by the Church.\n\nThe King of the Underworld is depicted as a tall, robed man with a skull face and a hood. Sometimes he holds a sickle, other times he stands on a pile of bones. Ahskul temples look like great crypts or mausoleums and often serve as such - there are funeral services performed in them and an ossuary beneath them. White marble is often used for building materials of Ahskul temples.\n\nAhskul is closely connected to the Order of the Black Sun and the Nosferatis Sisterhood, both Pillars of the Empire (Fulcimus Imperium).\n\n[tags {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9}  {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} ]
The Church of Sergorod is the religious institution of the God of Vengeance. It is tasked with upholding the law in cities, hunting down criminals, and delivering justice by Imperial decree. This gives the Sergorodites unprecedented power that is often abused - in theory to aid the Empire. One of the most important tasks of the Church involves aiding the soldiers of the Empire in battle, being the proxies of the prime war god of the realms.\n\nThe high priests of the Church wield great political and magical power, often holding seats of the Senate. The head of the Church is the Grand Inquisitor, chosen from among the most prominent priests by a council. All priests start as acolytes and go through religious, magical, and combat training. Their magic includes powerful debilitating curses, granting enhanced strength and durability that stems from rage, the detection of lies and hidden magical effects, and magically augmented war cries.\n\nThe Church has close ties to Ordis Negras Solis (the Order of the Black Sun), which is the Empire's greatest knightly order. The two organizations often work together both on the front lines and in domestic investigations into corruption, treachery, and decadence. The Order of Executors is a militant sect inside the Church who are less apt at using Sergorod's magic but take part in additional combat training to make them tough enforcers of Church authority. The High Executor (the leader of the sect) often wields power equal to, or even surpassing that of the Grand Inquisitor.\n\nThe Church has a lot of temples scattered around the continent - almost every city has one. The major cathedrals of the Raging One can be found in Tor'Zag's Shelter (often called Sergorod's City), Atergladium, and Hadrinium.\n\n[tags {recuNTaUgLotcC3e3} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]
The Triumvirate is the name of the pantheon of gods that serves as the official religion of the Empire since the beginning of the Fourth Age. This trio of gods came into contact with the Twelve (the Lich Lords of the New Empire) just after the Calamity and offered to aid them in the resurrection of the Riven Realms. Some say they even had a hand in ‘preserving’ the Apostles (turning them into Liches) even though that divine act is attributed to the Emperor in dogma. The three gods soon formed their own religious apparatuses under the watchful eyes of the Twelve who are not only the true heads of state but of Church as well, and who in turn worship the Triumvirate.\n\nThe three gods of the Triumvirate are Sergorod, God of Vengeance, Anger, Malevolence, and Curses; Bal Ur Kaal, the Demon God of Charm, Intrigue, and Deception; and Ahskul is King of the Underworld and the God of Death. Of the three, Ahskul's following is by far the largest, and Bal Ur Kaal's the most obscure. Each God's Church is responsible for some part of Imperial society. The second century after the Calamity brought unprecedented strife between the Churches, however, and the Triumvirate War that these spawned almost destroyed the budding New Empire before the Twelve stepped in and finally stopped the conflict. They established the Pillars of the Empire (Fulcimus Imperium): three religious orders, each shared by two deities of the Triumvirate that helped knit close ties between the Churches.\n\nReligious practices of Triumvirate followers typically involve prayers, masses in great temples (these differ greatly for each member of the Triumvirate), and sacrifices. Every time an Imperial wants the help of a god or a divine figure, a sacrifice - or at least the promise of one - is required. Most often, people sacrifice food and drink (the more expensive the better), but the wealthy sometimes sacrifice animals in ritual. This is done exclusively by priests, who serve as conduits between the divine and the mundane. Sacrificing humans or members of other decent races is forbidden by Ahskul. What makes a race ‘decent’ is anyone’s guess of course.\n\n[tags {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} ]
Ordis Negras Solis (Order of the Black Sun) is the first and foremost knightly order of the Empire and one of the religious orders called the Pillars of the Empire (Fulcimus Imperium). They worship Sergorod and Ahskul, being proficient in both the God of Vengeance’s military prowess and the King of Death’s necromancy. The knights are picked from the best soldiers, nobles, and warriors of the realms to serve without question. After they undergo rigorous training and mystical initiations, these deadly, dark knights serve by guarding aristocrats, aiding military exploits, and hunting down the enemies of the Empire - foreign or domestic. Due to the Order's official status as inquisitors, investigators, and executioners, they can go as they please and interrogate who they wish, a power that most of them gladly abuse for the good of the Empire. The knights are also very rich, which is mirrored in their gear forged from black metal.\n\n[tags {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]
Sergorod is the God of Vengeance, Anger, Malevolence, and Curses; a member of the Triumvirate, he is one of the three Gods of the Empire's official religion. He is regarded as the war god of the new pantheon but in truth he’s much more than that. His Church is tasked with upholding the law in cities, hunting down criminals, and delivering justice. This gives the Sergorodites unprecedented power that is often abused. Most people who serve in wars or who come into contact with justice call upon the God of Vengeance; and of course, everyone who has a grudge, too.\n\nAccording to legend, Sergorod found the Twelve just after the Calamity and offered them his help in taking revenge on whoever caused the downfall of Imperial society. They accepted, even though the Elder Gods who caused the cataclysm had disappeared from this reality. It is the Raging One whose Church fuels the war effort against the green continent in the north and the constant investigations into potential internal threats. Also called the Master of Curses, Sergorod provides magical abilities to his most devoted followers, who can afflict others with debilitating curses and draw might from their own wrath. It is also known that priests of Sergorod can detect lies, which is one of the chief reasons his inquisitors are dreaded so much.\n\nSergorod is often depicted as a huge, bald, raging man with colossal muscles, carrying a brutal mace or sometimes a two-headed axe. He almost always wears armor, often cast in real iron upon the statues, riddled with barbs, blades, and spikes, which are also carried over onto the decorations of his temple buildings. His priests shave their heads and paint it white, with a black line running vertically across each eye, representing the all seeing eye of the Raging One.\n\nSergorod is closely tied to two of the Fulcimus Imperium: the Knights of the Black Sun and the Ater Manis. His influence on the knightly order is especially strong - some say that it has become his own elite military instead of the original shared religious order between him and Ahskul.\n\n[tags {recPWoSj8qd6WXZk9} {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]
A feared place devoid of all life, the Voiceless Lake is one of the many active formations created by the proximity and lava flow of the Molten Tongue. The danger represented by the lake is more subtle than that of the other lava lakes, since the lava cools down fairly quickly as it comes near the Desert of Black Sands. The molten rock goes under the actual lake that has a mirror-like, steaming watery surface. Just below boiling point, the lake is a quiet place, with black sand, dark rocks, and a permanent fog of steam. The close proximity of the lake is deadly, however, as quite unexpectedly the ground can give way and one can fall into boiling hot water or pockets of lava. Other times the scorching steam can suddenly break through the earth and melt the flesh of unwary travelers.\n\n[tags {recOBiBv0HLxfsX9i} ]
Called the Desert of Black Sands (/Arenas Negras/ in the Imperial tongue), this place is a vast, empty desert where the fine sand is completely black. People who enter the desert and stay for more than a few hours usually inexplicably disappear. In the center of the desert is a terrible place, the source of all evil in the region: Arx Mortis.\n\n*Description*\nWhatever happened to this place, today only sand dunes and some dark rocks remain. Even if someone digs deeper under the surface, the black sand does not change, as if it went on forever. Generally, stones and rocks are quite rare in Arenas Negras, but there are some ridges and cliffs here and there. Nothing lives here. The silence that pervades the place is deafening. The weather ranges from cold to cool and the sun is never seen, hiding behind a permanently gloomy, overcast sky. Yet there’s no rain here ever and only a constant, chill, dry breeze can be felt. The gloom stays at night and there are no stars; a strange blueish-white, sickly glow can be seen on the horizon, where the dread silhouette of Arx Mortis, the City of the Dead, can be seen, even at places that are not close to it physically.\n\n*History*\nCalled ‘The City of the Dead’ these days, Arx Mortis used to be Calderum, capital of the Sanvorati province. Known as the City of Light, Calderum was made into its most horrible caricature by the Calamity. These days it is a dead city filled with eerie moaning and groans, cast in perpetual twilight, and beset by bone-chilling cold and a pale, cold light coming from the faded rocks that are almost all that remain from its beautiful buildings and walls. The curse affected the surroundings of the city as well and thus the Desert of Black Sands were born, bereft of life and joy and light forever.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj}] [region {reg4v2E3LevnU69c6002}]
A great city in the middle regions of the Empire, Tor'Zag's Shelter occupies the inside of a gigantic system of caves in the belly of the Blackblood Mountain. It is often called 'Sergorod's City' due to the presence of the Church of Sergorod's greatest temples.\n\n*Description*\nTor’Zag’s Shelter is built inside a cyclopean cavern - half natural, half man-made - inside the easternmost large mountain hill of the range called Blackblood Mountain. The cave, along with its web of tunnels and smaller caverns, is big enough to house an entire city. The only public entrance to Tor’Zag’s is a mile wide and several hundred yards tall cave mouth - significantly enlarged since the Orc War - blocked by a reinforced city wall with a gatehouse and towers. Buildings are placed quite close to each other due to lack of space and many dwellings are carved into the rock itself. The inner side of the cavern has terraces and these house the Villa and Temple Districts. Since the Church of Sergorod considers Tor’Zag’s Shelter its own (they overlooked its siege in the war), most of the Temple district is dedicated to the God of Revenge and Curses, Sergorod, as well as to the Knights of the Black Sun; so much so that often Tor’Zag’s Shelter is referred to as ‘Sergorod’s City’. A great Colosseum can also be found here and gladiator games are organized often.\n\nThe lower parts - closest to the gate - make up the Merchant District, while the undercity, situated below the terraces and at the sides in the walls themselves, is home to the city’s poor and forsaken. The truly rich live in roof villas, huge buildings attached to and carved into the giant stalactites that hang from the cave ceiling. These often have intricate elevator systems and even hanging bridges between them. Lighting is a constant problem in the ever-dark cave of Tor’Zag’s Shelter. Most of it is done with great metal chandeliers hanging from the cave roof. These are filled with oil imported from the Bronze Desert or brightkelp brought in from Everdark. The chandeliers are covered in Dwarven runes that enhance the burning and light emission. Even so, with thousands of torches, braziers, and light-carriers (an important and traditional profession there) all throughout the city, Tor’Zag’s is constantly in a twilight. People who grow up here get so used to the darkness that they are often blinded by harsh sunlight. When the sun sets outside in the Jagged Waste, city officials turn off the giant runed chandeliers, and true darkness settles on the Shelter.\n\n*History*\nWhen the Orcs were brought into existence by the Twelve over three centuries ago, they were used as weapons against the enemies of the Empire. Soon, however, they learned that they were enslaved by dark magic without hope to ever be free of it and they became enraged. In their rage, they almost tore down the Empire, until the Dragon Lords, afraid of the power of the Orcs themselves, joined the war. After a long and devastating conflict, the Orcs were hunted to near extinction, yet a smaller faction of united tribes remained defiant for a while after the end of the war: Orcs loyal to Warleader Tor’Zag captured the subterranean obsidian mines of the mountain range called Blackblood Mountain. The locale could be defended fairly easily by collapsing side tunnels and concentrating on the main cave entrance, which was also too narrow for large dragons, thereby denying the enemy their air superiority. Tor’Zag and his comrades enlarged the caves and dug deeper into the earth, eventually living there for almost 15 years. At length, infighting and a lack of supplies made them more complacent to a truce with the Empire and so they ended up relocating to Darkmoor.\n\nImperial forces retook the now-abandoned mines and since the main cave was already depleted of obsidian, they set up camp there. Many displaced inhabitants of the region ended up taking refuge in the caves, which slowly became a settlement in its own right. Its close proximity to the Emperor’s Road, potent sources of obsidian, the natural shelter from the unforgiving elements, and later fortifications added to the mountain ridge all made the city a very good place to live. Sadly, the underground settlement also gave rise to crime that is difficult to root out, as well as a tight, crowded cityscape. Imperial governors named it Tenebvitris, but no one ever took to it, instead continued calling it Tor’Zag’s Shelter. The city developed with lightning speed in the last two centuries and now stands as one of the most important trading posts of the middle Imperial regions, drawing people from the neighboring Dragonlands and Searing Plains that you would not be able to interact with otherwise.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]\n[node  {nodbyNH3LeUnG69c600U} ]
The Last Pilgrimage is a magical phenomenon and one of the great mysteries of the Fourth Age. Originally a group of pilgrims walking in penance to the capital, they were turned into a host of wandering specters that haunt the forsaken reaches of the Empire.\n\n*Appearance*\nNobody knows what the undead pilgrims look like, as no one has lived to tell the tale of a close encounter. People who have seen them from afar and survived saw pale, eerie, white-yellow light that surrounded a large group of walking dead. The spectral wanderers seem to be constantly followed by tempestuous winds that usually create a sand or dust storm around the Pilgrimage.\n\n*Origin*\nIt is said that in the last month before the Calamity, a group of high ranking priests of the pantheon of the Elder Gods started to see a pattern in the strange phenomena that began to appear sporadically all over Xeryn. They interpreted it as omens from the Gods and realized that their creators were displeased. To appease them, they set out in humble pilgrimage from the city of Toht (other sources name other cities as their origin) and planned to walk all the way to the capital and upon reaching it ask an audience from the Emperor. These rich high priests cast away their earthly belongings and walked, bare-foot. Many joined them on their way - clerics and simple folks alike.\n\nAfter weeks of walking, the Omens became more intense and finally the Calamity struck. According to legend, it caught the Last Pilgrimage - by then swollen to thousands of people - out in the open somewhere south of Deven. The cataclysm did not kill them but turned them into cursed undead, forever bound to their futile pilgrimage, forever seeking to reach the capital which will always be out of their reach.\n\n*Behavior*\nThere is no apparent rhyme or reason behind the appearance and disappearance of the Last Pilgrimage. It seems completely random, though it never occurs near settlements but almost always in open areas. If they appear and someone does not or can not flee, they are never seen again. The theory is that the specters force them to join the pilgrimage that is doomed never to reach the capital.\n\n\n[tags {recyswXl5MlzZRo9x} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} {recBcOZ1NTpmyrglx} {recdbVxBTES840oDS}]
Irafons, often wrongly referred to as a God, was a Saint of Old Imperial religion whose influence was so great in everyday life that his worship remained even after the Calamity. Called the Vagabond, he is the one who looks after roads and travelers. His worship is very popular among /vagri/.\n\nOriginally Irafons was a man who - according to legend - visited every place there is, yet never found what he sought until he realized he was drawn to the road itself. Strangely, his cenobites have some magical powers in the post-Calamity era, even if not as potent as that of priests of the Triumvirate.\n\n[tags {rec2E1BP87Npf3MRY} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]
The race known as ‘Grey Dwarves’ (or by most people simply ‘Dwarves’) is a descendant of the Dwarves of old, altered and made homeless by the Calamity.\n\n*Appearance*\nStocky and sturdy, Dwarves are a hardy folk. Men almost always grow beards. They are drawn to metal, jewels, and stonework. Their former merry and progressive nature turned into bitterness, pragmatism, and cynicism for the most part. Grey Dwarves live up to the age of 200-250 years.\n\n*History*\nFormerly, the mighty Dwarven kingdom of Dvendar Tharr was the greatest ally of the Empire, gifting humans most secrets of metal and stone that they used to form their own roads, bridges, and cities. Dwarven technology was a true marvel to behold and the line of Inventor Kings governed Dvendar Tharr into a golden age of progress. Yet even before the Calamity, the Dwarves of Dvendar Tharr abandoned their ancestral ways in favor of technology, going as far as dedicating their entire lives to it instead of founding their own families, which resulted in a dwindling population.\n\nWhen the Calamity struck, most of Dvendar Tharr was cursed and destroyed in a conflagration of fire and lava as the great mountains that the Dwarven cities were built upon and partly into erupted like so many wounds on the earth. The several thousand survivors of the cataclysm became a wandering people, at the same time coveting and hating the technology that they think led to their downfall.\n\n*Culture*\nThese days, Dwarves are nomads for the most part, dealing in gadgets and metalworking. Sometimes they make an attempt to enter the molten kingdom of Dvendar Tharr and learn something of their past but that ends in disaster more often than not. Dwarves are scavengers, merchants, and inventors, and still, their numbers fall constantly due to their reluctance to procreate. For all intents and purposes, Dwarves are a dying race - and they don't seem to care.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW} {recLF3Dyip1e2Q7RU}]
The ruler of the town of Scrapheap, the man called the Heap King is widely considered to be a formidable fellow, though most admit that they have never seen him. Many years ago, after most Trade Houses that set up shop in the town got robbed and were driven out, a gang lord appeared and organized the previously chaotic and warring work teams. Eventually, his charm and power earned him rulership. Rumored to have been an important man in the Empire until his humiliation and exile, the Heap King now commands considerable personal influence over the junkyard town and its warring factions.\n\n[tags {recXmsgpnwrAzhCmF} {receCIfXSlpPPQjCY}]\n[DLC Prologue TMK]
Changers are a type of coin used in the Empire and in most other realms on the continent. Made of carved bone, wood, glass, obsidian,  or even pretty stone, these coins are the least valuable of the standard Imperial currency, so most people see a lot of them. Curiously, there's no standard for how they should look, yet everyone knows if a coin is worth enough to be considered a changer. Usually 10 changers are worth a single Lyrg.\n\n[tags {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW}]
Ash is a township between the Searing Plains and the Jagged Waste, aptly named after the permanent ash-covered plain that it was built next to.\n\n*Description*\nThe color of the ash-like silt here is grey, and this material covers most of Ash’s streets and low, stone buildings. Ash is as far as an Imperial road goes in the western provinces and people claim it to be the last stop of civilization. These people have evidently never been to Ash, a hive of slaver scum and petty warlords, barely contained by the small local garrison. Slaver pits and compounds with clay or stone walls surround the town, but there’s no fort or proper wall here. The small legion garrison is set up in an abandoned compound on the west side.\n\n*History*\nNobody knows how the approximately 30-mile diameter ash field got there during the Calamity, or why it does not dissipate but it probably has to do with how the wind carries the silt down south from the Ashlands. The town was built and settled by those who struck out west after the Calamity in search of habitable lands. Their dreams faded when they faced the Searing Plains and they ended up giving up and staying in this melancholy place. Ash has always been a grey, sad little settlement, but some wanderers and nomads come here to trade. Due to its proximity to savage lands, it has become a slaver town, and the slave market is thriving usually. Therefore, some major Imperial Trade Houses keep well-guarded villas of their own in the center of Ash.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv}]\n[node {nodGTDi3LNiYK84d8005}]
Scrapheap is a town on the edge of Imperial territory just north of the Molten Tongue and south of the Forest of Shadows.\n\n*Description*\nIn the smoldering shadow of the great mountains of the west, Scrapheap rarely sees sunlight, as the skies are forever ashen and overcast. The air is hot and dry. Earthquakes are common. Most of the time, Scrapheap is engulfed in smoke and ash, and a constant reddish twilight is upon it. Surrounded by a low wall, the town is indeed made of scrap and junk, mostly stone with metal scraps, as well as leather and cloth awnings. A single, tall tower stands high above the town on a hill, housing a beacon that aids scavenger teams in their return, but also gives home to the Heap King. Inhabitants wear scarves and masks to aid their breathing.\n\n*History*\nWell after the Calamity, people flocked to the Molten Kingdom of Dvendar Tharr, formerly the homeland of all Dwarves on the continent, in order to plunder any riches that remained there - especially the rare metal that is still in abundance in the kingdom. Because Dvendar Tharr is now extremely volcanic and volatile, the scavengers did not dare to dwell in it, only in its close proximity. Thus, the settlement of Scrapheap was born.\n\nThe town is not under Imperial jurisdiction because the Empire never gave a damn about its existence out on the savage, barely inhabitable mountainside, and simply let gangs and /comitati/ gather and sell the precious metal and ore in one of the border towns. Still, some Trade Houses sometimes set up a temporary compound there, only to get robbed and driven out months later. Scrapheap is run by the Heap King, a gang lord who organized the previously chaotic and warring work teams.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl}]\n\n[node  {nod5n8z3KmLqu035000y} ]
Deven is the largest settlement of the otherwise scarcely populated upper-central region of the Empire and its provincial capital.\n\n*Description*\nToday, Deven is almost completely underground, in a series of dark, cool caverns accessible through chasms opening between the Spires and the ruins of the old town. Labyrinth-like tunnels and caves give home to many Wraiths and others, and due to its position in the changed Empire, Deven now has the Emperor’s Road going through it, elevating it to a major city and trading post that managed to outgrow its humble beginnings as a shelter by taxing travelers and providing a sheltered stop on a long north-south journey. Dwellings are carved into the rock or are attached onto rock walls but even so, Deven is stiflingly crowded. Light is scarce, mostly provided by brightkelp - the city is among its greatest importers.\n\n*History*\nBefore the Calamity, Deven used to be a middle-sized city, and the Emperor’s Road did not pass through it. Yet the Emperor chose it as the site for one of his many mysterious projects: the Spires - a crown of dozens of blade-like spires made of smooth black metal - reached hundreds of yards towards the sky, occupying another city’s worth of area next to Deven after a whopping 20 years of sorcerous construction. During the Calamity, most of Deven proper was completely destroyed, but the spires were unscathed, except that they got buried in rubble about halfway to their tops. Even today, nobody knows what their purpose might have been. Nobody could harm the Spires in any way, not even leave scratches on their matte surface. Quite a few people survived the catastrophe in nearby cave systems, but they changed during the centuries spent living underground, and became a new race: the Wraiths. The tunnels they dug under the earth throughout the centuries since is what became the new city.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]\n[node  {nod6hNd3LeUf469c600N} ]\n
Dajmaha, the Land of Endless Rain, is a country of tribal communities and mystical sorceresses in northeast Xeryn, occupying a large peninsula that reaches into the Sea of Storms. The country sees more rain in a year than all the other lands of the continent put together and has a hot, humid climate. Due to this, Dajmaha is completely covered in rain forests. Its seclusion owing to the hard-to-cross Atuk Mountains makes the land only accessible via seafaring vessels.\n\n*History*\nDajmaha can trace its roots back to the old Dujan Empire of the Second Age. When the old continent broke apart following the War of Sorcerers, Dujan was decimated and its lands ended up on two, now distant continents. The southern realm became Dajmaha and the rule of the Zenraki warlock-kings - surviving dark mages from Dujan - was toppled a few centuries following the cataclysm. A dark age began in Dajmaha, one without clear rulers or union, and the three great ziggurat cities were taken over by nature. Eventually, an order of mystics and seers called the Order of Kajubra Sha appeared some time after the Calamity who from then on regulated the use of magic and under their benevolent rule, Dajmaha rose to become a fairly peaceful and progressive nation, though in truth, the tribal societies of the deep jungles remained relatively unchanged. The country managed to avoid the Calamity completely, as the arcane energies of the apocalyptic phenomenon stopped abruptly at its borders. The New Empire took its time to turn its oppressive gaze towards Dajmaha, and only conquered it in p.c. 549. It held onto the realm for a mere century because the sorceresses of Kajubra Sha returned and liberated it. Since then the Empire had taken no steps to reacquire the land, although many whisper that an invasion is soon to come.\n\n*Economy*\nDue to its curious weather (for Xerynese standards), Dajmaha has some things in abundance that other realms have very little of: timber and fruit. These goods were loaded onto ships in the ziggurat cities and taken to be sold for great profit in the ports of Tark, Sargot Kala, and the Inner Coast.\n\n*Society*\nDajmahan society is two-fold. On the one hand, the vast majority of the country's population is made up of jungle-dwelling tribes. They have primitive technology and are often quite savage but rarely if ever leave the confines of the vast jungles of the peninsula. Their fragmented state thanks to hundreds of beliefs and traditions prevent them form rising out of this savagery. The dwellers of the three great ziggurat cities form the other part of Dajmahan society. Craftsmen, farmers, and scholars all have a say in the governance of the land but the true power lies in the hands of the Sorceresses, whose mystical order oversees and protects all. The head of the state is the Sorcerer Queen, chosen from among the most prominent sorceresses of the Kajubra Sha.\n\n*Religion*\nDajmahan faith revolves around the idea of Sha, an energy that makes up the universe and facilitates life. More philosophy and a way of life than simply a religion, the Shalimi (Way of the Sha) permeates everything Dajmahans do. The Sha represents all that is natural and wholesome. When corrupted by the evil of men or malevolent spirits, the Sha (of a place or a person) becomes sick and corrupting itself. Such deeds lead to Tabuul, that is, practices shunned and forbidden in Dajmaha. The realm has no priests, instead, the ruling class of sorceresses in the great ziggurat cities play the roles of religious leaders.\n\n[tags {recRnZOT9ZPDSmvKj} {recmLjIUHCuOXmXUW}] [region {regQENM3LdwR184d8002}]
Iyabwi fruit is native to Dajmaha, where it grows in mountainous regions, having spread over to the Atuk Mountains as well. Fist-sized, blue-tinged, succulent-looking berries grow on the plant's branches. The fruit is edible and has a sweet-sour taste. Sages say it had to have been modified magically, because it sometimes takes root in faraway lands without any rational explanation.\n\n[tags {recE8cOwqRIX770Fm} ]
Avernum is a city - the regional capital of the Empire where the Molten Tongue meets the Smolderbone Flats.\n\n*Description*\nAvernum is surrounded by a stone and bone wall, with watchtowers standing every 200 yards. The bones were carried to the site from the Plains of Bone in the south at great expense and are often carved with elaborate decorations. The houses of the city are in cramped lines, forming narrow streets and small plazas. Often, plazas have leather and cloth awnings to shield them from falling and slowly gathering ash of the nearby lava rivers. Most buildings are dark brown due to the color of the stone available close by. An imposing stronghold, called the Slagfort, which houses the garrison and the Prefectus in its great hall, was built upon the single large hill of the south side. Large warehouses can be found pretty frequently in the outer districts of town, along with smelting forges and furnaces. Some buildings are outside the walls, typically inhabited by the poor.\n\n*History*\nThe reborn Empire soon moved back to the abandoned Smolderbone Flats after the Calamity and found it ideal to settle because of the new resources that could be found there: salt, minerals, and even obsidian. Thus, the city of Avernum was built at the western border of the Flats. Under the control of an appointed governor - called the Prefectus - the city mostly lacks the religious apparatus of provincial settlements but has a fairly large military presence. Rumor is that due to its backwater status, Avernum follows Imperial regulations more loosely, and it is essentially a private kingdom of the Prefectus. Controlling the city from the Slagfort, he sends his personal army, the Avernus Legion to handle his business. Because many /comitati/ carry obsidian and even metal through here, there’s an unusual density of weapon craftsmen and even blacksmiths in Avernum; one can find several forges and smithies on the main street.\n\n[tags {rec7TXTYN2GemJeVl} {recC1DviztfH4wHuv} ]\n[node {nodrPu63L9Yxcd31f00A}  ]
